<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="signing">
    <title>Signing a tokenscript</title>
    <shortdesc>Sign a tokenscript so it can be deployed on web or mobile.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq id="prereq_t2d_trn_gnb">
            <p>You will need the TokenScript in a file that is already tested working. We will
                assume it's <filepath>DAI.xml</filepath> in this tutorial.</p>
            <p>Since signing associates your TokenScript with an identity, you need to provide a
                Certificate of an identity and sign with its key. The simplest way to get started is
                to use the SSL certificate for your website, although any X.509 certificate will do.
                It's up to the users and websites if they trust it. </p>
            <p>Let's say that you are signing a TokenScript for DAI, you can use the web certificate
                of makerdao.com. You need at least 2 files: <ol id="ol_k1k_d5n_gnb">
                    <li>The key file. We will assume that it's named
                        <filepath>key.pem</filepath>;</li>
                    <li>The website certificate file. We will assume that it's named
                            <filepath>makerdao.crt</filepath>; We will assume the certificate chain
                        is also in this file.</li>
                </ol></p>
            <p>Since we are using a Java-based signing software in this tutorial, you will also need
                to install the <xref
                    href="https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">Java Runtime Environment</xref>.</p>
        </prereq>
        <context>
            <p>As a token issuer, once you have created a TokenScript and tested it working, you
            need to sign it so it is associated with an identity such as a website. It is required for deployment either on user's mobile phone or for use with websites.</p>
        </context>
        
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Download a signing tool. In this tutorial we use xmlsectool which can be
                    downloaded from <xref
                        href="https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/XSTJ2/xmlsectool+V2+Home"
                        format="html" scope="external">shibboleth.net</xref> (or go directly to
                        <xref href="http://shibboleth.net/downloads/tools/xmlsectool/2.0.0/"
                        format="html" scope="external">zip file download section</xref>).</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Extract the zip file to a directory. For example
                        <filepath>xmlsectool-2.0.0</filepath>. We will later call a commandline
                    utility in this directory.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open a commandline console and make sure the current directory has the
                    TokenScript file to be signed, in this case <filepath>DAI.xml</filepath>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Run the downloaded <term>xmlsectool</term> following the example</cmd>
                <stepxmp>Run the <filepath>xmlsectool.sh</filepath> command provided in the
                    xmlsectool-2.0.0 directory, replacing the filenames with the ones you are
                    actually
                    using:<codeblock>$ xmlsectool-2.0.0/xmlsectool.sh --sign --inFile DAI.xml --certificate makerdao.crt --key key.pem --outFile DAI.tsml</codeblock></stepxmp>
                <stepresult>If successful, the output should look like
                    this:<codeblock>INFO  XMLSecTool - Reading XML document from file 'DAI.xml'
INFO  XMLSecTool - XML document parsed and is well-formed.
INFO  XMLSecTool - XML document successfully signed
INFO  XMLSecTool - XML document written to file DAI.tsml</codeblock></stepresult>
                <steptroubleshooting>
                    <p>If you get this error message:
                        <codeblock>ERROR: JAVA_HOME environment variable is not set.</codeblock>Then
                        do a Internet search for "How to set JAVA_HOME" with your operation system.
                        Such as "how to set JAVA_HOME Ubuntu".</p>
                </steptroubleshooting>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Verify the resulting file is correctly signed:</cmd>
                <stepxmp>Following
                    command<codeblock>$ xmlsectool-2.0.0/xmlsectool.sh --verifySignature --certificate makerdao.crt</codeblock>
                </stepxmp>
                <stepresult>If successful, the output should look like
                    this:<codeblock>INFO  XMLSecTool - Reading XML document from file 'DAI.tsml'
INFO  XMLSecTool - XML document parsed and is well-formed.
INFO  XMLSecTool - XML document signature verified.</codeblock></stepresult>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
