<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_t51_w4p_qmb">
    <title>Encoding Attestation in URI</title>
    <shortdesc>Encoding an attestation in URI format that is colloquially called <xref
	    href="../concept/MagicLink.md" format="mdita"/>.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Encoding takes as argument the address of `a smart contract which the attestation
                should be encoded towards.</p>
            <p>The encoding then proceeds as follows:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd><codeph>signatureAlgorithm</codeph> is defined in Sec. 4.1.1.2 of RFC 5280. If the algorithm has OID 1.2.840.10045.4.3.2 (ECDSA with SHA256), then remove <codeph>signatureAlgorithm</codeph>. Curve choice is not possible under OID 1.2.840.10045.4.3.2 and will be assumed to be secp256k1. Similarly for the optional field <codeph>algorithm</codeph> in <codeph>SubjectPublicKeyInfo</codeph>.</cmd>
              
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd><codeph>signature</codeph> is defined in Sec. 4.1.2.3 of RFC 5280. It
                        <i>must</i> contain the same value as <codeph>signatureAlgortihm</codeph>
                    and is thus always removed.</cmd>
            </step>
          <step><cmd>The remaining structure is DER encoded.</cmd></step>
          <step><cmd>The DER encoding is then base64 encoded, with the following exceptions:</cmd>
            <itemgroup><ul><li>The content of <codeph>dataObject</codeph> is decoded back into its human readable ASCII representation. It is furthermore moved to the beginning of the encoding (i.e. before the base64 encoding starts) and appended an exclamation point, !.</li>
              <li>If the <codeph>signatureAlgorithm</codeph> has OID 1.2.840.10045.4.3.2 then the data in the <codeph>CommonName</codeph> field within the <codeph>Name</codeph> structure of the <codeph>issuer</codeph> field is decoded back into ASCII (which implicitly is actually a hex encoding, and thus human readable). It is  appended an exclamation point, !, and then moved to be right after the exclamation point ending the <codeph>dataObject</codeph> encoding. Thus the format of the encoding is now:</li></ul></itemgroup>
            <stepresult>The format of the encoding is
                    now<codeblock>&lt;dataObject>!0x&lt;fingerprint>!&lt;base64 of DER encoding></codeblock></stepresult>
          </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>URL sensitive characters of the ASCII representation are escaped using the URL
                    percent encoding approach as specified in RFC 3986 section 2.1. </cmd>
            </step>
          <step>
                <cmd>The address of the smart contract which the attestation is being linked to is
                    appended with an exclamation point, !. Finally the address and exclamation point
                    is prepended to the encoding of the attestation.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd> URL sensitive characters of the encoding (specifically the base64 encoded
                    part) are substituted according to the following rules:</cmd>
              <itemgroup><ul>
                <li>Addition sign, <codeph>+</codeph>, is replaced with the minus sign, <codeph>-</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Forward slash, <codeph>/</codeph>, is replaced with the underscore, <codeph>_</codeph>.</li>
                <li>Equality, <codeph>=</codeph>, is replaced with the multiplication sign, <codeph>*</codeph>.</li>
                </ul></itemgroup>
              <stepresult><p>That is, an attestation will look something like the following when the
                    smart contract address is assumed to be 0x34288B5B65D616B746AE, the fingerprint
                    of the public is 0xAB89BBEF99736629DC23, the <codeph>dataObject</codeph> has the
                following ASN.1 form:</p>
                    <codeblock>"dataObject":{
    "match":1,
    "class":"lounge/lobby",
    "admission":1
                      }</codeblock> <p>The URI being:</p><codeblock>0x34288B5B65D616B746AE!match=1;class=lounge%2Flobby;admission=1;0xAB89BBEF99736629DC23!CICyyZb8QcHv0k0bDUV3T0W_EVGGMWOwKD_RIpnbFT_cTAiBsZiTXYqH870YYKE6tjwhnis-BbE8hCNfFlTmrRaCM-gg\*\*</codeblock>
              </stepresult>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
