<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qcw_53r_cnb">
    <title>Creating a frictionless market with Token</title>
    <shortdesc>Blockchain helps to create a frictionless market with token which make payment and
        delivery the same process.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_d1n_v3r_cnb">
            <p>The 80s' "Back to the Future" featured a world of powerful machines filled with
                hovering boards and flying cars. It didn't happen. As Peter Thiel once famously
                lamented, "we were promised flying cars; instead, we got 140 characters". The
                technological advancement of our time is beyond the imagination of the 80s science
                fiction movies, albeit not through more powerful machinery, but efficient use of the
                Internet.</p>
            <p>Ride-sharing revolutionised the way we organise our daily lives, and AirBNB changed
                the way we travel. These are the new, less frictional markets. They incur less cost
                to operate, are more accessible and have finer operational units.</p>
            <p>However, despite this web 2.0 revolution, the majority of markets still operate with
                high costs. The stock market, for example, has so much overhead that it is only
                justifiable for multi-million dollar businesses to afford to operate under the rules
                and regulations.</p>
            <p>With blockchain, any tokenised asset can be fastly transacted any time, as long as it
                follows the rules, without an intermediary or the process to "enter the market",
                eliminating frictions and enabling maximum market efficiency.</p>
            <p>With the traditional intermediary-operated market model, a trade is made in two
                stages: entering the market, making a deal. Blockchain can simplify that into a
                protocol; therefore the blockchain token assets can be considered <i>always on the
                    market</i>.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_q1n_v3r_cnb">
            <title>Tokenised Assets</title>
            <p>Can we tokenise 1% of a property, so that we have a finer property market with lower
                entry thresholds, which react faster than the typical month-long property
                purchase-sales cycle? Can token create a market of granular investments in all kind
                of resources?</p>
            <p>Can we tokenise electricity, allowing power users to benefit from finer scheduling of
                the use of resources, and households to benefit from collecting surplus sun
                energy?</p>
            <p>Can we tokenise AirBNB bookings, so that hosts can purchase a guaranteed cash flow
                from the market, while speculators profit from predicting the travel needs?</p>
            <p>Can we tokenise the risk and reward of international trades, so that small importers
                and exports, not significant enough to obtain letters of credit, can compete in
                global markets?</p>
            <p>Can we tokenise books, content and intellectual property, creating liquid markets for
                them?</p>
            <p>Can we create an insurance token that depends on cryptographic proofs, so that the
                insurer can remove the costs incurred by fraudulent documents from the pricing? Can
                we decentralise the insurers altogether?</p>
            <p>Blockchain can provide the foundational layer to achieve these. It enables a working,
                frictionless market with tokenised assets <i>always on the market</i>. However, this
                can only become true when there is a reliable and precise method to define how
                tokens should be used and transacted. This the focus of our work on TokenScript.</p>
            <p>To carve out the difference, we look at how Tokens are used today.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ebn_v3r_cnb">
            <title>Payment Token and deliverable Token</title>
            <p>In 2017-2018 we did end up having hundreds of tokens. However, they uniformly fall
                into one category of token: created with the ERC20 standard they are currency-like,
                filling up the <i>payment side</i> of the market. There is nearly zero effort
                devoted to making tokens <i>goods and services</i> - which is the <i>deliverable
                    side</i> of the market and a fundamental need for a market to work.</p>
            <p>We categorise tokens as payment tokens and deliverable tokens. ERC20 tokens bearing
                the hallmarks of <i>payment tokens</i> only fills one side of the market with
                tokens. They can't lift the market, as they merely compete with other payment-token
                - like Bitcoin or Ether - on the payment side. They represent a good, but they do
                not actually deliver. They are rather like gift cards.</p>
            <p>During the speculative bubble of 2017, an energy token ICO did not need to provide
                any explanation of how the tokens can be used. All speculators needed to know is
                that they represent for example a "stake in the future world of tokenised
                electricity". As long as the token can inspire investors with imagination, it's good
                enough for an ICO. There is no more functionality needed other than an ERC20
                interface.</p>
            <p>Such a speculative token didn't depend on attestations - the proof of actual power
                production - nor did it need properties like where the energy is provided or for how
                long it is available. Instead of enabling a frictionless market, those tokens have
                just been a promise on enabling it, which has been sold as a gift card. By far most
                will never deliver.</p>
            <p>Now that the madness is over, it's time to present the technical framework to make
                the market actually work.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_sbn_v3r_cnb">
            <title>Token properties</title>
            <p>Tokens can be products. Therefore, they need to have different properties: Do tokens
                expire? AirBNB booking tokens certainly do, but 1% ownership of property tokens
                probably don't. Should the token owner receive a notification on a specific event?
                An energy token needs that, for the change in the power supply is dynamic. Is a
                token stream-able?</p>
            <p>How does it look on the user's mobile, and how is it called in a users language? If a
                buyer wants to purchase a tokenised country estate from a seller, how do they
                establish a trusted method of communication? If a token entitles the user to do
                specific actions online, how can the user login to the web services with that
                token?</p>
            <p>It's easy to see the need for an open framework defining tokens and making them
                interoperable with different methods of trading, listing and rating. TokenScript
                provides such a framework. It overcomes the limitation of the approach to put
                everything in a smart contract or a set of smart contracts.</p>
            <p>However, to diligently design it we need to consider the second part of what
                Blockchains can do: Integrate the web.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
