<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ujp_djr_cnb">
    <title>Blockchain integrates the web</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>
            <section id="section_ubb_fjr_cnb">
                <title>The problem of the internet as we know it</title>
                <p>Tim Berners-Lee and the innovators of the world wide web modelled the web
                    primarily on a) the public library model and b) the computer-human interaction
                    model.</p>
                <p>a. In the library model, information is freely available, indexed and
                    cross-referenced by a URI. Its incarnation, the URL, is where the data is, and
                    there is no restriction on where you can go.</p>
                <p>b. In the computer-human interaction model, two players are having a conversation
                    - the human asks and the machine answers. A computer has limited knowledge, but
                    it can help the user to reach the right computer.</p>
                <p>Therefore, the web was built as a giant library where each book is a computer
                    with whom one can have a conversation.</p>
                <p>This design has caused a lot of modern inconveniences. A user would one day
                    receive an email on her monthly statement, yet she couldn't recognise a few
                    entries on them. It says "Amazon". Was it about ordering a pair of shoes? She
                    has to copy the order number and look it up in Amazon. The same user might pause
                    as she books two tickets for an opera, switch to her frequent flyer app, copy
                    that number over and paste it into the order to collect the points. She might
                    struggle a bit installing that frequent flyer app at the outset. When she buys
                    on another webshop, she needs to download another app or create another
                    account.</p>
                <p>Why are we doing so much copy and pasting when machines are exceptionally good at
                    doing this? Owning to the design, the web is like a giant library, and we are
                    like readers keeping notes of the index numbers under our sleeves. We hope that
                    in the future the Web resembles no longer of a library, but more like a personal
                    assistant.</p>
            </section>
            <section id="section_gcb_fjr_cnb">
                <title>The client side can't integrate a web that is not designed to
                    integrate</title>
                <p>Surprisingly, even the technology that was created to fill the role of a personal
                    assistant, the Smart Phone, still failed for the same reasons: the efforts from
                    client side alone can't integrate a Web that is not designed to integrate. It
                    made the problem even worse, as copy-pasting becomes bigger trouble when using a
                    Smart Phone.</p>
                <p>The truth is: Not only the client but the infrastructure has to support
                    integration. A smartphone is modelled after a dial-up Internet connection, with
                    each app representing a website. The users still need to figure out which
                    computer (app) to talk to before entering the conversation, and still copies
                    information around as he swaps apps around. It's therefore not possible, for
                    example, to ask your smartphone to sum up all the money one may access by his
                    online banking apps.</p>
                <p>It's easy to see the cause of the inconvenience: the web is poorly integrated.
                    The bad examples go on and on:</p>
                <ul id="ul_xcb_fjr_cnb">
                    <li>
                        <p>When a user checks out on the web, she isn't sure if she has enough
                            balance on her card, since the bank is not integrated with the shopping
                            system.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>When a patient orders a service, she can't see how much the insurance can
                            cover until the bill settles, nor can she know whether she has reached
                            the annual cap since the clinic is not integrated with the health
                            insurance company.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul>
                <p>Such integrations can be addressed by having a backend connection between the two
                    service providers, but it is not often done, because it requires the parties to
                    collaborate and negotiate a value distribution. The collaboration depends on the
                    security (takedown system A through system B), availability (one went offline
                    while the other serving customers), scalability (<i>n²-n</i> integrations needed
                    for <i>n</i> parties). Furthermore, such integration restraining the free market
                    in two ways. First, the competition will be on integration, not goods and
                    services. An insurance company which integrated their systems to more clinics
                    competes against a new insurance company on the ground of integration, not
                    coverage and premium. Second, it doesn't allow integration between contending
                    parties, and it requires permission from both side of the integration to
                    work.</p>
                <p>The challenge to integrating the web requires a few building blocks that weren't
                    in the Web's blueprint: authentication, ownership, transfer of value and
                    trading.</p>
            </section>
            <section id="section_ndb_fjr_cnb">
                <title>"Account authentication" is not a substitute for web integration.</title>
                <p>The web doesn't have a built-in authentication mechanism[^tls]. To route around
                    this gab, many users use add-ons like "Sign in with Facebook". Those merely try
                    to provide authentication through a trusted 3rd party, which does not only cause
                    privacy and availability concerns but also only serves for account
                    authentication and can't be used for integration.</p>
                <p>[^tls]: There have been excellent efforts on client/server certificates in
                    Transport Layer Security (TLS). However, these authentication methods are not
                    for processes, but only for sites. They represent a delegation model: Imagine a
                    buyer not checking if a title deed is real, but only checks if the seller's name
                    matches the one on the deed. That would be the delegation model used in TLS. In
                    this model, TLS can't guarantee that anything on the website is genuine -- only
                    that the website itself is. Facebook uses TLS, but people put much fake news on
                    it. The unit of trust here is undoubtedly not granular enough for the web to
                    deliver an integrated experience.</p>
                <p>On top of it, the model of account based authentication is the cause of further
                    problems. Most simple business cases - for example, "the owner of a car checks
                    its service history" - don't require an account. Truthfully, accounts are
                    stopgaps to problems created by the specific structure of the Internet as we
                    know it.</p>
                <p>If you enforce parties involved having an account to authenticate, bad things
                    happen:</p>
                <ul id="ul_tdb_fjr_cnb">
                    <li>
                        <p>When the car is sold, the new car owner would now need to create a new
                            account at the service website and secure it with the proof of ownership
                            to the car. This is onerous and unreliable.</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        <p>When a 3rd party like a Vehicle Modification workshop or an insurer needs
                            to access the repair history, there is no easy way to authorise them
                            without giving away the account. This is inflexible.</p>
                    </li>
                </ul>
                <p>Such integration needs, poorly addressed by adding accounts, are easily found in
                    healthcare, retail and almost every web-based business. Today, we are still
                    adding more and more accounts to address the growing integration needs. It's a
                    case of hammering every problem down as if it is a nail. Most people do not feel
                    well with this model but don't see an alternative to integrating the web. An
                    internet without accounts is beyond most people's imagination.</p>
                <p>We demonstrate that integration through token is a superior solution to integrate
                    the internet. A vital element of this process is ownership.</p>
            </section>
            <section id="section_d2b_fjr_cnb">
                <title>The lack of an ownership mechanism</title>
                <p>The web doesn't have a built-in mechanism for ownership, transfer of value and
                    trading.</p>
                <p>To demonstrate, we take the car story a bit further: When you want to sell your
                    car, you need to post the car information on a website. To do so, you must
                    create an account on the way. When someone wants to buy your car, you and the
                    buyer have to go through a chain of processes: Insurance, unused service quota,
                    vehicle registrations, documentation handover, payment and so on. All these
                    actions have to be done separately, using easily-tampered paper proofs and forms
                    and accounts. The process starts at the web and ends somewhere else instead of
                    being automatically done after the buyer clicked "buy".</p>
                <p>Is it possible to make it happen, that the entire chain of bureaucratic
                    procedures happens securely in the backend, while you just push the "buy"
                    button? With the web of accounts, you'd need to knot together a lot of accounts
                    and trusted third parties, which hide the process from the user, while they
                    fulfill the same paper trail as before.*</p>
                <p>In contrast, when you base the same process on a blockchain and on tokens, it
                    would be automatic, fraud-proof[^attestations] and atomic[^atomic]. You could
                    finish a car sell with one click in a secure way without the need for accounts
                    and paper trails.</p>
                <p>[^attestations]: the method to provide cryptographically signed attestations as a
                    condition for a transaction is discussed later in the "Attestation" chapter.</p>
                <p>[^atomic]: In blockchain terms, an atomic transaction either happens or not. If
                    well defined, it's not impossible for a buyer to have successfully paid for a
                    car yet not getting the ownership token, or only have transferred the car's
                    ownership but not the compulsory insurance on it.</p>
                <p>These missing features of the web are the well-known functions of the blockchain.
                    A blockchain is an immutable, decentralized record of ownership, sometimes
                    called a "triple-entry bookkeeping" system. The virtual wedding of this perfect
                    fit couple requires a virtual exchange of tokens, or what this paper called
                    "tokenisation".</p>
                <p>To do so, Token must seamlessly go across systems, carry their trading rules and
                    user interfaces and business context.</p>
            </section>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
