<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hnh_hlr_cnb">
    <title>TokenScript as a Solution</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>We propose TokenScript as a solution to overcome the shortcomings of the legacy token
            model.</p>
        <p>TokenScript is a program interface for tokenisation. It is an XML dialect, which
            describes the functions of the token and the method to interact and render it on the
            user interface. It serves two purposes: It helps the user to access the token's full
            functionality - and it allows the creation of more advanced and complex
            user-token-interactions.</p>
        <p>The XML dialect can be easily read by any device and software without the need to pull it
            into the core of the wallet structuring the interaction with the blockchain. It's also
            possible to use TokenScript to perform token actions on another protocol, without the
            need to migrate the token smart contract.</p>
        <p>Basically, TokenScript puts a lot of information offchain, while the core of the token
            design remains on the chain. As TokenScript (and every update) is signed by the token
            issuer, it is as verifiable as the smart contract itself, while being a set of shared
            data between the token issuer and it's users. In the context of current blockchain
            terminology it could be described as a <i>Layer 2</i> technology for the interaction
            with token.</p>
        <p>You can imagine it by thinking on a computer program for your music files: Like the token
            on a blockchain, the music files remain the same, but the software for playing them can
            change. It can be automatically updated to eliminate a bug, or it can change to allow
            new features, like recording, cutting or fine-tuning the audio frequencies or putting it
            in a library of your favorite songs. TokenScript is the hinge which connects the
            software with the token and makes sure that the interaction of both is not arbitrary,
            but structured by the issuer of the token.</p>
        <p>To explain TokenScript in more details, we will sketch out design requirements by
            applying the concept on examples.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
