<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gm1_2hl_mmb">
    <title>ActionCard</title>
    <shortdesc>An action card triggers actions in the wallet. For example, a transaction, an
        attestation, a component of a transaction or a signature.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><b>Concept</b></p>
        <p>Action Cards enable wallets and dapp browsers to launch token specific operations. They
            can be triggered by an external source like a website, but also by a button in the
            wallet. </p>
        <p>Action Cards can be triggered by a third party. But they never take place on a website or
            a server, but exclusively in the wallet. A third party can only start, but not change an
            action card. </p>
        <p>Action Cards enable wallets to add offchain operations to a token and create token
            specific transactions, which are currently delivered by a website (dApp). For example,
            if you have deposited a token to a DEFI project and want to redeem or "withdraw" it,
            this can be done by clicking a button in the wallet, instead of being dependent on a
            website to create the transaction for you. </p>
        <p>Action Cards can launch onchain operations like transactions. But they also allow a token
            creator to add information to his token or integrate offchain operations: The user can
            sign a message, start a process to attest his email address, send an authorisation to
            let someone else use your token (if the underlying token's smart contract accepts such
            authorisations) or create a deal to share (requires underlying contract's support).
            Action Cards could also be helpful to transfer an asset to second layer networks like
            sidechains or offchain networks.</p>
        <p>Some action cards can only be available in a specific context. For example, if a token
            represents a soccer game ticket, the action "Show entrance Pass" should only be
            available at a gate of a stadium.</p>
        <p>It is possible to use two action cards at the same time or in combination. This is called
            a deck. One successful Action Card can enable another, or the combination of two action
            cards can unlock a new operation. </p>
        <p><b>Code</b></p>
        <p><i>The XML file</i></p>
        <p>In the XML file, the <codeph>&lt;ts:action></codeph>...<codeph>&lt;/ts:action></codeph>
            tag starts and ends an Action Card. As an easy example, this is how you declare a simple
            Action Card which adds an "About" page to a
            token:<codeblock> &lt;ts:card type="action">
     &lt;ts:label>
          &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">About this token&lt;/ts:string>
     &lt;/ts:label>
     &lt;ts:view xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
         &lt;style type="text/css">&amp;style;&lt;/style>
         &lt;script type="text/javascript">&amp;about.en;&lt;/script>
     &lt;/ts:view>
 &lt;/ts:card></codeblock></p>
        <p>In the XML code you find the reference to a Script, usually written in JavaScript. In
            this Script you execute the Action Card. As you see, the Script is placed in the "view"
            tags.</p>
        <p>Often you will need more complicated Action Card, which might involve to use onchain data
            to create a transaction. A more sophisticated example is an Action Card to renew an ENS
            domain:<codeblock>&lt;ts:card type="action" name="renew">
      &lt;ts:label>
          &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">Renew&lt;/ts:string>
      &lt;/ts:label>
      &lt;ts:attribute name="renewalPricePerYear">
            &lt;ts:type>&lt;ts:syntax>1.3.6.1.4.1.1466.115.121.1.36&lt;/ts:syntax>&lt;/ts:type>
            &lt;ts:label>
                &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">renewal price per year&lt;/ts:string>
            &lt;/ts:label>
            &lt;ts:origins>
                &lt;ethereum:call function="rentPrice" contract="ETHRegistrarController" as="uint">
                    &lt;ts:data>
                        &lt;ts:string local-ref="userEnsName"/>
                        &lt;ts:uint256>31556952&lt;/ts:uint256>
                    &lt;/ts:data>
                &lt;/ethereum:call>
            &lt;/ts:origins>
      &lt;/ts:attribute>
      &lt;ts:transaction>
          &lt;ethereum:transaction function="renew" contract="ETHRegistrarController" as="uint">
              &lt;ts:data>
                  &lt;ts:string local-ref="userEnsName"/>
                  &lt;ts:uint256>31556952&lt;/ts:uint256>
              &lt;/ts:data>
              &lt;ethereum:value local-ref="renewalPricePerYear"/>
          &lt;/ethereum:transaction>
      &lt;/ts:transaction>
      &lt;ts:view xml:lang="en">
            &lt;xhtml:style type="text/css">&amp;style;&lt;/xhtml:style>
            &lt;xhtml:script type="text/javascript">&amp;renew.en;&lt;/xhtml:script>
      &lt;/ts:view>
&lt;/ts:card></codeblock></p>
        <p>In this example a few things happen: In the &lt;ts:attribute> part you declare <xref
                href="Attributes.dita">Attributes</xref> you will later use in the JavaScript file.
            With an Ethereum call you learn the renewal price per year - and important information
            to build a transaction. With the &lt;ts:transaction> tag you create the transaction to
            renew the ENS domain. Finally, inside the view tags, you link to a renew JavaScript.</p>
        <p><i>The JavaScript file</i></p>
        <p>The operations of an Action Card are written in an JavaScript file. All JavaScript files
            must be declared at the top of the xml
            file:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE token  [
        &lt;!ENTITY style SYSTEM "shared.css">
        &lt;!ENTITY about.en SYSTEM "about.en.js">
        &lt;!ENTITY approve.en SYSTEM "approve.en.js">
        ]></codeblock></p>
        <p>Here is a simple example for an Action Card displaying an about page in the
            wallet.<codeblock>class Token {
    constructor(tokenInstance) {
        this.props = tokenInstance;
        this.setConfirm();
    }
    setConfirm() {
        window.onConfirm = function() {
            window.close();
        }
    }
    render() {
        return`
        &lt;div class="ui container">
          &lt;div class="ui segment">
            &lt;span>&lt;bold>&lt;h1>This is my token!&lt;/span>
          &lt;/div>
        &lt;/div>
`;
    }
}
web3.tokens.dataChanged = (oldTokens, updatedTokens, tokenIdCard) => {
    const currentTokenInstance = web3.tokens.data.currentInstance;
    document.getElementById(tokenIdCard).innerHTML = new Token(currentTokenInstance).render();
};</codeblock></p>
        <p>The file starts with declaring a Token class. Here you can define properties of the token
            and import attributes. In the "render()" part you can put your individual message in
            html. In this case it is simply the message "This is my token!". But you can also add
            images from websites, API calls and much more.</p>
        <p>For a more complicated example, we turn to the ENS TokenScript again and show how to it
            renews an ENS domain:</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>class Token {

    //TODO add slider to determine the duration by year
    constructor(tokenInstance) {
        this.props = tokenInstance;
        this.props.baseNode = ".eth";
        this.props.fullName = this.props.ensName + this.props.baseNode;
        if(this.props.fullName === ".eth" || this.props.fullName === "undefined.eth") {
            // if ENS name cannot be retrieved by events because it is legacy, use the opensea format
            this.props.fullName = this.props.name;
            //remove .eth
            this.props.ensName = this.props.name.replace(this.props.baseNode, "");
        }
        web3.action.setProps({
            userEnsName: this.props.ensName
        });
    }

    formatTimeStamp(UNIX_timestamp) {
        let a = new Date(UNIX_timestamp * 1000);
        let months = ['Jan','Feb','Mar','Apr','May','Jun','Jul','Aug','Sep','Oct','Nov','Dec'];
        let year = a.getFullYear();
        let month = months[a.getMonth()];
        let date = a.getDate();
        return date + ' ' + month + ' ' + year;
    }

    render() {
        return`
        &lt;div class="ui container">
          &lt;div class="ui segment">
              &lt;img src="data:image/png;base64,i...C">
              &lt;span>&lt;bold>&lt;h3>Renew &lt;strong>${this.props.fullName}&lt;/strong> for one year&lt;/h3>&lt;/bold>&lt;/span>
              &lt;div id="inputBox">
                 &lt;h3>Price of one year renewal: ${(this.props.renewalPricePerYear / 1e+18).toFixed(3)} ETH&lt;/h3>
                 &lt;h3>Name expires: ${this.formatTimeStamp(this.props.nameExpires)}&lt;/h3>
                 &lt;br>
              &lt;/div>
          &lt;/div>
        &lt;/div>`;
    }
}

web3.tokens.dataChanged = (oldTokens, updatedTokens, tokenCardId) => {
    const currentTokenInstance = updatedTokens.currentInstance;
    let token = new Token(currentTokenInstance);
    document.getElementById(tokenCardId).innerHTML = token.render();
};</codeblock>
        </p>
        <p/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
