<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_adj_mnz_mmb">
    <title>Attestation</title>
    <shortdesc>An attestation is a claim cryptographically attested by an attestor's signature.
        TokenScript enables wallets to create and manage attestations.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
      <note>Unlike a blockchain token, which exists only as a concept and has no physical files, an
            attestation can be encoded as a DER file or encoded in a <xref href="MagicLinks.dita"/>. </note>
        <p>Attestation can be about anything. To individual identity, one can be attested to have
            the legal drinking / voting age, or an university degree, or that he owns an email
            address.</p>
        <p>There can be attestations to a token. For example, an insurance company can issue an
            attestation attesting a specific car is insured.</p>
        <p>There can be attestations to an activity. For example, a smart contract may allow
            blockchain payment redeemed on the condition that a specific job is attested as well
            done. Such a job can be, for example, a car painting job, identified by the job id in
            the corresponding Smart Contracts;</p>
        <p>For example, if you rent a tokenized car, you want to make sure, that the seller has an
            insurance police on the car. And if you trade something with someone, you might want to
            be sure that he has verified his identity. And so on.</p>
        <p>There are typically 3 ways to use an attestation:</p>
        <ul id="ul_hdn_xv4_qmb">
            <li>As the payload of an attested transactions. The underlying smart contract will check
                the validity of such attestations.</li>
            <li>To prove something to a 3rd party. For example, you can construct a proof of your
                email address with an email address attestation.</li>
            <li>To provide dependency for other attestations. Since <xref
                    href="AttestationChained.dita"/>.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>All those cases require an attestation: A data object (or file) which proofs a claim on
            something. An attestor can attestate an national identity or the possession of an email
            address, an insurance company can attestate an insurance certificate and so on. Those
            files attestations are usually signed by an attestor, but in some cases can be self
            signed, for example when the claim is to own an address of a cryptocurrency.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">A standardized attestation format has an enormous potential to smoothly
            integrate identity and other claims into the web and to streamline a lot of processes,
            like signing up for an exchange, registering a bank account, verifying as an accredited
            investor for an Security Token Offer.</p>
        <p>TokenScript fully support the integration of attestation processes, triggered by an
            action card directly in the wallet. You can integrate an attestation circuit into the
            life cycle of a token. </p>
        <p><b>Attestation versus Blockchain Token</b></p>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-c17d42c9-7fff-776a-6d10-82e4537e3178">Attestation and
            blockchain token, are related concepts. Both of them require the user having a private
            key.</p>
        <p>In some use-cases they are interchangeable. For example, a FIFA ticket can be eiether an
            attestation or a blockchain token. When it is an attestation, it attests the
            key-holder's right to enter the venue. When it is a blockchain token, it serves the same
            purpose, and also might be transferable within the Smart Contract rules.</p>
        <p>That reveals the first difference: an attestation isn't transferable, and a token's
            transferability depends on the smart contract. The second difference, is that
            attestations are private, not stored on the blockchain. The proof of an attestation,
            however, might be written to the blockchain in an <xref href="AttestedTransaction.dita"
            />.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">[Editor's note: the following paragraph says the same as the previous, consider
            consolidating.]</p>
        <p dir="ltr">An attestation can be connected to an Ethereum entity like the holder of a key
            pair. This allows to create cheques - the transfer of coins from a smart contract to
            someone who can provide an attestation for an identifier like an email address. Also,
            attestations of anything can be required to use a smart contract. You could create an
            ICO smart contract which requires an attestation of being a verified investor.</p>
        <p>Another example is a car sharing platform: To offer her car on a platform, Alice has to
            provide an insurance attestation. She gets this attestation by using a Card in the
            TokenScript of her car token, which launches the insurance process straight from the
            wallet. Since Alice, the car sharing platform and Bob, who rents the car, all have
            TokenScript installed, they silently validate in each step, if Alice's car is
            insured.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Any delivery vs payment operation can integrate any kind of attestation which
            might be required for the process. </p>
        <p><b>Offchain Attestations</b></p>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-04a84172-7fff-258d-adc5-22fc03caa689">Attestations are
            usually offchain. They often carry private information, like identity, birth date or
            mobile phone number. This kind of information should never be saved on a public
            blockchain. Offchain attestations are data objects signed by an attestor stored on a
            local device. However, attestations can also be token, which don't disclose private
            information, but attest that an attestation was given.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Attestations can be used to create a proof of attestations which can be part of
            a transaction. For example, if you have a cheque smart contract the receiver needs to
            create a transaction which includes a proof of the attestation of the required
            identifier, like a phone number.</p>
        <p><b>Attestation Format</b></p>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-5d145ec5-7fff-8581-76f9-a734957f6ca7">An attestation is
            a signed <xref href="DataObjects.dita">dataObject</xref>. The dataObject can contain any
            information, including public and private information. It can be signed by an Ethereum
            entity and attested to a token.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Attestations are non-transferable, but transferability can be achieved by
            attesting to another attestation.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Attestations can be fully expressed by an URI for easy and cross-compatible
            usage.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">The attestation format takes close inspiration from the X.509 certificate
            specification, RFC-5280, but makes several fields optional, adds a few new ones and
            changes some formats.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">There is still much work to be done. For example, we need a format that can do
            partial attestation by using Merkle Tree, or even zero-knowledge proof of
            attestation.</p>
        <p><b>Attestation Card</b></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
