<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tvg_xkg_nmb">
    <title>Attributes</title>
    <shortdesc>Define attributes so that token data becomes available to Cards and Websites. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-6f535edd-7fff-c20b-1017-137517f57393">In TokenScript you
            can declare “attributes”. These are properties of the token. They can be pulled from the
            blockchain or declared on your own will. Due to attributes TokenScript enables a <xref
                href="DataDriven.dita">data-driven and event-driven approach</xref> to token
            management in a wallet.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript does not define or assume any specific token attributes, however
            any token must have at least one attribute.</p>
        <p>The most commonly used attribute is "balance" as defined in ERC20. Let's take another
            more complex example: For a token representing a ticket for a soccer match, its
            attributes should contain the information when and where the match happens, which teams
            play, which seat is reserved and so on. </p>
        <p>Attributes are declared in TokenScript. The following is a minimalist declaration, where
            an attribute "balance" is defined. The value originates from an Ethereum function call
                <codeph>balanceOf</codeph>.</p>
      <codeblock conref="elements/Attribute.dita#concept_bfd_tgl_mmb/minimal_attribute"/>
        <p>Another example of an Attribute declaration declares the locality of a soccer match in
            the <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples/tree/master/examples/EntryToken"
                format="html" scope="external">TokenScript for an entry token</xref>:</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock> &lt;ts:attribute name="locality">
      &lt;ts:type>&lt;ts:syntax>1.3.6.1.4.1.1466.115.121.1.15&lt;/ts:syntax>&lt;/ts:type>
      &lt;ts:origins>
          &lt;ethereum:call function="getLocality" contract="EntryToken" as="utf8">
              &lt;ts:data>
                  &lt;ts:uint256 ref="tokenId"/>
              &lt;/ts:data>
          &lt;/ethereum:call>
      &lt;/ts:origins>
&lt;/ts:attribute></codeblock>
        </p>
        <p dir="ltr">An token attribute is defined, so that the TokenScript engine knows how to get
            its value when needed. For example, an Action Card of an <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples/tree/master/examples/ENS"
                format="html" scope="external">ENS TokenScript</xref> renews the ENS domain and uses
            the attribute ensName, which was declared in the XML
            file:<codeblock>constructor(tokenInstance) {
        this.props = tokenInstance;
        this.props.baseNode = ".eth";
        this.props.fullName = this.props.ensName + this.props.baseNode;
        ...
    }</codeblock></p>
        <p>Once defined, the attribute is available to all of the <xref href="Card.dita"/> defined
            for this token in the same TokenScript file without special permissions. It also became
            available in the <xref href="TokenLayer.dita"/> to allow functionalities like:</p>
        <ul id="ul_g3m_mst_pmb">
            <li><xref href="TokenNegotiation.dita"/></li>
            <li>Search / index of a token (e.g. in a market place)</li>
            <li>Selection</li>
            <li>Describe criteria of actions</li>
            <li>Set the role of a token</li>
        </ul>
        <p dir="ltr">An token's attribute is a data object.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Attributes are just declarations. They are never directly shown to a wallet.
            They are just here to let the wallet know and to allow TokenScript to build further
            operations and representations on it. To make them visible you need cards.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Attribute is a categorical declaration. There are other declarations inside the
            &lt;attribute> tags, for example &lt;origins> or &lt;token>. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">If you want TokenScript to querry an API for information, like weather or
            exchange prices, this will not be part of the attribute tag, but part of an action
            card.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
