<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_tfy_zpg_nmb">
    <title>Cheque protocol</title>
    <shortdesc>Cheque protocol solves a common multi-sig use-cases</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>There are many scenarios multi-sig can be used to achieve efficiency and privacy. Cheque
            protocol introduce a set of standard and crypto library to address such scenarios. It
            requires wallet support.</p>
        <p>The current protocol description is described in the document of our <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/blockchain-attestation/blob/master/use-cases/send-ether-by-identifier-attestation.md"
                format="html" scope="external">send ether by identifier attestation MVP</xref>.</p>
        <section><title>Multi-sig is efficient</title>
        <p>Take the following scenario:</p><ol id="ol_jz2_hhw_smb">
                <li>A CEO authories an employee to withdraw up to 500USD per day from an
                account.</li>
                <li>An employee withdraws 100USD.</li>
            </ol><p>Observe that only the 2nd transaction causes money to change hand, yet the first is a blockchain
            transaction, consuming gas nontheless. The process can be turned into a multi-sig
            process where the CEO sends the authorisation off chain to the employee, who use it, and
            some information (100USD), sign again to with draw the money.</p>
        <p>Such multi-sig protocols can be built individially, but a protocol makes it easier to
            support this kind of feature through wallets, dapp websites and the eco-system. This is
            what Cheque protocol is for.</p></section>
        <section><title>Cheque protocol adds privacy protection</title>
        <p>Furthermore, proper cryptographic hiding is needed to protect privacy involving protocols
            that ues attestations.</p>
        <p>Observe this process:</p><ol><li>Alice sends a signed cheque to Bob. Not knowing his choice of Ethereum address, Alice hides his
                email address in a Pedersen Commitment.</li>
            <li>Bob obtains an 3rd party attestation that he owns the email address. </li>
            <li>Using the Cheque, and the email address attestation, Bob redeems the 1 Eth
                promised.</li>
            </ol>
        <p>In such a case, implementors should not be left to roll out their own crypto, but rather
            take an existing library to protect Bob's email address from being learned by any
            observer. Cheque protocol included the necessary crypto - in this case Pedersen
            Commitment and Zero Knowledge Proof - so that blockchain Token developers can implement
            their version of such protocol in their business scenario.</p>
            <p>This use-case is our <xref
                    href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/blockchain-attestation/blob/master/use-cases/send-ether-by-identifier-attestation.md"
                    format="html" scope="external">MVP implementation of Cheque protocol</xref>. The
                cheque protocol paper will be published based on this MVP result.</p></section>
        <section><title>Cheque protocol can improve security</title>
            <p>Some uses of Cheque protocol can prevent counter-party risk.</p>
            <p>For example, an exchange can get an order from a user to sell their cryptocurrency at
                certain price. Later when the order can be filled, the exchange can counter-sign the
                order and execute it. This can happen even when the user is offline. Therefore the
                user does not need to deposite their cryptocurrency into the exchange's account
                prior to the trade, minimising counter party risk.</p></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
