<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_jrl_h5q_4mb">
    <title>Token Negotiation</title>
    <shortdesc>Token Negotiation is how a website discovers tokens it can use</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Token Negotiation is the process by which Tokens and Websites negotiate to find the
            match.</p>
        <p>For example, a travel booking website like booking.com might negotiate for the following
            tokens:</p>
        <ul id="ul_yqp_k5t_pmb">
            <li>Travel agent's status token which allows special travel-agent booking.</li>
            <li>Any airfare token which included free overnight stay for certain hotels.</li>
            <li>Priority Guest Rewards tokens, which might allows free upgrades for certain
                hotels.</li>
            <li>Any Payment Token that can be used to pay for the booking (e.g. American Express
                Explorer Credit).
            </li>
            <li>Corona Token which attestates a fresh negative test result or antibodies</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The website booking.com finds and allows the users to use such tokens through
            TokenNegitation.</p>
    <section id="negotiation_methods"><title>Negotiation Methods</title>
      <p>TokenScript provides the following negotiation methods:</p><ol id="ol_egq_bvt_pmb">
                <li>Attribute based negotiation, which requires the negotiable <xref
                        href="Attributes.dita">attributes</xref> to be declared in
                    TokenScripts.</li>
                <li><xref href="Attestation.dita">Attestation</xref> based negotiation, by which a
                    website provides an attestation signed by a token issuer's trust key, showing
                    that the token is intended to be usable on that website;</li>
                <li>Expectation based negotiation, by which a token declares being able to do
                    certain things (e.g. let the website receives up to 1ETH in payment).</li>
	    </ol><p>These can be comined and mixed.</p></section>
        <section id="section_dcx_4jc_ymb">
            <title>Negotation Process</title>
            <p>Negotation can be passive or active.</p>
            <p>In a passive negotiation, the website declares what tokens can be used on the website
                through HTML <codeph>&lt;meta></codeph> element. In a browser, the user is
                preseneted with a <xref href="TokenBar.dita"/>. The user can click the tokens in the
                token bar any time to make that token "active" in the current session. It's possible
                for the user to not to choose anything in the entire session and the user is not
                forced to make a choice.</p>
            <p>In an active negotiation, the website runs a JavaScript routine to do the
                negotiation. The user is presented with the choice of tokens and the user must make
                a choice or explicitly choose nothing. Such JavaScript routine can be hooked to a
                button, for example, "Sign-up for a newsletter" button might trigger the user to
                choose one of the tokens that can produce an email address proof.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
