<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hkf_tdd_pmb">
    <title>TokenLayer</title>
    <shortdesc>TokenLayer is a set of intrastructure to support Tokenisation use-cases</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>TokenLayer is a set of intructure that supports upper layer Tokenisation use-cases by
            combining the lower layer technology like Blockchain and Attestation. TokenScript's core
            task is to provide such a TokenLayer. We envision a TokenLayer with the following
            characteristics.</p>
        <p/>
      <section><title>Data-driven and Event-driven</title><p>Instead of running an application and repeatedly enquire the blockchain for data updates, a
                TokenLayer provides data that is declared relevant. A token's status, available
                actions and roles are affected by the token's data, which we collectively call Token
                Attributes.</p>
            <p>In TokenScript's design, Token Attributes are either collected from the blockchain
                directly through Smart Contract calls, or through an Attestation. Similarly, a
                wallet or web application built on token layer declares interest on receives updates
                of blockchain events, timed events (like opening a previous commit) or incoming
                attestations, instead of actively looking for them.</p></section>
      <section><title>Context-based</title><p>TokenLayer allows Token Actions to be defined based on context. a TokenLayer provides actions to
                be performed under the right context.</p>
            <p>Take American Express Travel Credit Token as an example. Instead of launching a web
                application called American Express Travel, where the user is able to choose a hotel
                and spend such travel credit, having a Token Layer allows the user to go to book a
                hotel in any hotel booking website that supports the use of such a token, and pay
                with the credit at the checkout.</p>
            <p>Similarly, though a Token token can be associated with a specific time, location or
                environment. For example, an airline passenger is able to swipe open the turnstile
                at the airport check-in without having to open his Airline mobile app first, as the
                use of such a token (boarding pass) is associated with the right context. A
                TokenLayer implementation like TokenScript allows the tokens to be associated with
                context by declaration or authorisation, instead of having each token running a
                process on user's device.</p></section>
        <section id="section_afb_pgd_pmb">
            <title>Composite</title>
            <p>Token actions directly run on TokenLayer are designed to be composible…</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
