<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA 1.3 Concept//EN" "technicalContent/dtd/concept.dtd" [
]>

<concept id="concept_nff_y3l_mmb"><title>Token Card</title>
<shortdesc>TokenCards determine how a wallet represents a token
visually.</shortdesc>
<conbody><p>Token Cards instruct a wallet, a dapp browser or a website
how to represent a token. This can include visible instructions,
like icons, colors, a text description or buttons. These visible
properties are set with the <codeph>&lt;view></codeph> declaration <xref outputclass="fm:" href="ItemView_vs_TokenView.dita" />.
With it token issuers can design how the token appears in the wallet
or on websites. You can think of it similar to a library of CSS
code.</p>
<p>There are also invisible aspects of the token cards. They can
define important security parameters like a serial number and other
technical properties which are useful for wallets to know.</p>
<p>A token card can have different properties in different circumstances.
A soccer ticket token can change its appearance after the game started,
and a car leasing token can show different properties depending on
your position in the car leasing chain.</p>
<p>Token Cards are declared in the XML-file, but expressed in JavaScript,
for example by creating a token class and rendering html code in
it.</p>
<p><b>Code</b></p>
<p>Here is an example of how a Token Card is declared in the XML
file of TokenScript:</p>
<p><codeph>&lt;ts:cards></codeph></p>
<p><codeph>&lt;ts:card type="token" name="main"></codeph></p>
<p><codeph>&lt;ts:item-view xml:lang="en"></codeph></p>
<p><codeph>&lt;xhtml:style type="text/css">&amp;item-view-style;&lt;/xhtml:style></codeph></p>
<p><codeph>&lt;xhtml:script type="text/javascript">&amp;item-view.en;&lt;/xhtml:script></codeph></p>
<p><codeph>&lt;/ts:item-view></codeph></p>
<p><codeph>&lt;/ts:card></codeph></p>
<p>This code fragment instructs the wallet to use a JavaScript file
(item-view.en.js) and a CSS file (item-view-file.css) to display
the token. You can lookup these files in the <xref  href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples/tree/master/examples/ENS" format="html" scope="external">ENS example for TokenScript</xref>.</p></conbody></concept>
