<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zgr_dhg_nmb">
    <title>Tokenization and dApps</title>
    <body>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-09ccc131-7fff-4f2d-dc4e-aad7501f309b">There is a lot of
            talk about tokenization, but often it is hardly understood. Tokenization is much more
            than ICOs or Security Token: It is at the heart of the Web 3.0 which uses token as a
            layer of interaction with decentralized applications, so called dApps.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Tokens do not just represent items of values - like fiat currencies, crypto
            currencies, collectibles or securities - but also identity, attestations, permissions
            and much more. To understand Tokenization, you have to get over the limits of money or
            security-like tokens. Token should understood <xref
                href="https://medium.com/alphawallet/what-is-a-token-token-economy-101-29593afa13d2"
                format="html" scope="external"><u>as any stake in a smart contract</u></xref>. </p>
        <p>The Tokenization of everything will create new markets, bring more liquidity to existing
            markets and break the silo architecture of current ecosystems through the fundamental
            interoperability of blockchains. Learn more about Tokenization in our <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript/blob/master/doc/design_paper.md"
                format="html" scope="external"><u>Design Paper</u></xref>.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Each token is attached to a public key, for which the user exclusively owns the
            private key. Users can hold and manage their token autonomously in a wallet like
            Alphawallet. With the help of a mnemonic seed phrase the whole wallet can be
            reconstructed. This setup makes token an elemental brick of decentralizing the web and
            redirect control to users.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Token allow to separate permissions and websites. They can be used on any
            website or dApp, without the website being their issuer. The separation between dApps
            and token is an important aspects of Tokenization. An over-simplistic analogy would be
            to think of login with google - but with the account stored locally, in your wallet, not
            on google's server. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">Token are created on a blockchain with a smart contract. TokenScript is a layer
            between the blockchain and the user or the dApp. It is like a high level language to
            design token based user interactions. We believe that TokenScript enables token to
            unleash their power as never seen before and become a building brick of
            Tokenization.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
