<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_f54_yfw_qmb">
    <title>Smart Contract Trust Key</title>
    <shortdesc>The Smart Contract Turst Key (Trust-key for short) is the key explicitly trusted by
        the smart contract to sign TokenScript.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>If a TokenScript generates a transaction to be sent to a smart contract, the smart
            contract needs to express trust towards the TokenScript's signing key, here to referred
            as "Trust Key".</p>
        <p>This mechanism is important for providing trust.</p>
        <p>There are two ways to express trust from the Smart Contract to the TokenScript Key:</p>
      <section><title>Configure the smart contract to return the fingreprint of the key</title>
        <p>A smart contract with key management feature can return the currently trusted TokenScript key through a 256-bit fingerprint.</p>
        </section>
      <section><title>Send an Express-of-Trust transaction</title>
        <p>…Steps…</p>
        <p>Presently we restrict the TokenScript key to be using secp256k1 curve to make
            implementation simple, therefore, it is also a valid Ethereum key. This key does not
            need to be used on the blockchain at all, and in fact we advise not to use it on the
            blockchain, since the life cycle of a TokenScript key is different then the life cycle
            of an Ethereum key. One might discard a TokenScript key and unawaringly lost the Ethers,
            or spent all the Ether and discard the key only to find later that it has other
            uses.</p></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
