<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_nlj_qhg_nmb">
    <title>Introduction to TokenScript</title>
    <body>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-e0588b59-7fff-f9c6-08d4-576a2c544c53">TokenScript is a <xref href="DataDriven.dita"/>
               , Context based <xref href="TokenLayer.dita"/>. TokenScript consists of:</p>
        <ul id="ul_qws_mms_pmb">
            <li>TokenScript Engine, which works in the user's wallet, on the web or in a browser
                plugin, to provide the runtime infrustructure so that various Tokens can be used on
                various websites.</li>
            <li><xref href="TokenScript-Component.dita"/>, each issued and signed by the
                corresponding Token Issuer, providing a Token's UX, rules, data models, transaction
                security measurements for a specific token to be used on various websites when
                loaded in a TokenScript Engine.</li>
        </ul>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript enables <b>token creators</b> to leave the restrictions of smart
            contracts behind. It allows to add a lot of information, even image files or API lookups
            to a token, and design a set of business rules and interaction logics for it, including
            attestations and structured interactions with other tokens. Moreover, with TokenScript
            token issuers can easily and securely update the token rules.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">For <b>wallets</b>, TokenScript levels up their capability as the user agent
            for blockchain interactions. Currently most dApps require a third party website to
            interprete the state of the blockchain and to craft smart contract transactions. When a
            wallet imports TokenScript, it learns to fully understand the smart contract, add a lot
            of information about the token to the GUI and create all kind of complex transactions.
            TokenScript eliminates the need for third party websites and puts the user at the
            helmet.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Web and app developers</b> can deploy TokenScript into their app. It allows
            them to securely integrate the full scope of token functionality and to trigger specific
            token related actions in the user wallet. Without TokenScript they would need to deeply
            understand blockchain and smart contracts and invest a lot of work to integrate every
            single token. With TokenScript only a very basic knowledge is required.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript files are <xref href="Signing.dita">signed by the creator of the
                token smart contract or a trusted source</xref> with a public key. Wallets and dApps
            can import and verify the files.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript is blockchain agnostic. The main focus of our development is based
            on Ethereum token. But it can be adopted to other blockchains and even combine token and
            interactions of different blockchains. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">This guide will educate you about the<xref href="BasicConcepts.dita"> basic
                concepts of TokenScript</xref> and the <xref href="Deployment.dita"
                >deployment</xref> of a TokenScript.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
