<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_y3c_tv2_pmb">
    <title>Distinct Attribute</title>
    <shortdesc>If an attribute is distinct, it is used to identify a token.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
      <p>A distinct attribute is a <xref href="../Attributes.dita">Token Attribute</xref> that has
                <codeph>distinct</codeph> set to
            true:<codeblock>&lt;attribute name="balance" distinct="true">
…
&lt;/attribute></codeblock></p>
        <p>The number of unique values of this attribute is the number of token instances. The
            TokenScript engine records each value and uses that to identify each token.</p>
        <p>If there is no distinct attribute defined, TokenScript takes <codeph>ownerAddress=${ownerAddress}</codeph> as its RDN.</p>
        <example>
            <title>Getting Multiple instances of the token defined</title>
            <p>The following code defines a distinct attribute called <varname>tokenId</varname>. If
                the smart contract returns 2 values for it: <ul id="ul_xdd_kcw_zmb">
                    <li><codeph>0x59a7a9fd49fabd07c0f8566ae4be96fcf20be5e1</codeph></li>
                    <li><codeph>0xd915c8AD3241F459a45AdcBBF8af42caA561A154</codeph></li>
                </ul> then the TokenScript engine identifies 2 tokens, each identified with:
                <ul>
                <li><codeph>tokenID=0x59a7a9fd49fabd07c0f8566ae4be96fcf20be5e1</codeph></li>
                <li><codeph>tokenID=0xd915c8AD3241F459a45AdcBBF8af42caA561A154</codeph></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <codeblock>&lt;ts:attribute name="tokenId" <b>distinct="true"></b>
  &lt;ts:type>
    &lt;ts:syntax>1.3.6.1.4.1.1466.115.121.1.40&lt;/ts:syntax>
  &lt;/ts:type>
  &lt;ts:origins>
    &lt;ethereum:call function="balanceOf" contract="EntryToken">
      &lt;ts:data>
        &lt;ts:uint256 ref="ownerAddress">&lt;/ts:uint256>
      &lt;/ts:data>
    &lt;/ethereum:call>
  &lt;/ts:origins>
&lt;/ts:attribute></codeblock>
        </example>

        <example>
          <title>You have 1 contract that defines 2 tokens</title>
            <p>For example, you can have 2 TokenScript files. </p>
            <p>The first
        has:<codeblock>&lt;token name="tokenA">
  …
  &lt;attribute name="tokenID" <b>distinct="true"</b>>
    &lt;origins>
      &lt;ethereum:call function="getTokenABalance" contract="MyContract" as="uint"/>
    &lt;/origins>
  &lt;/attribute></codeblock></p>            <p>The second
        has:<codeblock>&lt;token name="tokenB">
  …
  &lt;attribute name="tokenID" <b>distinct="true"</b>>
    &lt;origin>
      &lt;ethereum:call function="getTokenBalance" contract="MyContract" as="uint"/>
    &lt;/origin>
  &lt;/attribute></codeblock></p>
            <p>Although two tokens refer to the same contract "MyContract", and even if they point
                to the same contract address, a TokenScript engine is able to interpret that there
                are two tokens.</p>
            <p>However, if both TokenScripts has the same distinct attribute from the same origin,
                it's an error.</p>
        </example>
        <example>
            <title>A Smart Token identified by a customised attribute</title>
            <p>For example, you have one token defined like
        this:<codeblock>&lt;token name="car">
  …
  &lt;attribute name="VIN" <b>distinct="true"</b>>
    &lt;origins>
      &lt;ethereum:call function="getCars" contract="CarContract"/>
    &lt;/origins>
  &lt;/attribute></codeblock></p>
            <p>Then, depends on how many values are returned, the TokenScript engine should
                interpret that there are that many number of Car Tokens, each with a different
                distinct VIN (Vehicle Identification Number), all of these Car Tokens are instances
                defined by this single TokenScript file.</p>
        </example>

    </conbody>
</concept>
