<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="namespace">
    <title>TokenScript Namespace and versioning</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <conbody>
        <section><title>Current TokenScript namespace</title>
        <p>TokenScript's namespace is, at the moment, the literal string:
                <codeblock>http://tokenscript.org/2020/06/tokenscript</codeblock></p>
        <p>Since the technology is still in its early days, we haven't formalised a versioning
                method but it's <i>likely</i> the next version will be using the following literal
                string: <codeblock>http://tokenscript.org/2021/01/tokenscript</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Versioning</title>
            <p>TokenScript is not a standardised technology. It is proposed to be standardised and
                we hope it will be standardised by one of the standardisation bodies like OASIS.
                Before it is standardised, there is no version number and we simply refer to the
                namespace for versioning. For example, instead of saying "currently TokenScript is
                in version 0.5", we say "the current TokenScript uses the 2020-Jun schema".</p>
            <p>Since TokenScript is not yet a standardised technology, the current implementations
                are not required and may or may not support TokenScript defined in an older schema.
                That is, TokenScript developers need to closely follow the development to make sure
                their TokenScript is compatible with the latest software.</p>
            <p>For this reason we recommend TokenScript authors to submit their TokenScript in <xref
                    href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Repo" format="html"
                    scope="external">a centralised repository on github</xref>. It streamlines
                delivery to mobile phones, also, allowing us to find out which TokenScript needs to
                be updated and inform the corrisponding party. The use of this centralised
                repository will be marginalised when TokenScript is standardised in terms of
                distribution metehod.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_esk_kd3_ymb">
            <title>Namespace of blockchain-specific elements</title>
            <p>Elements that defines an operatio in a specific blockchain are under the namespace of
                that specific blockchain. For example, <term>Ethereum</term> operations are under this namespace
                (this might change as we go through a  standardisation process in the coming
                years)<codeblock>urn:ethereum:constantinople</codeblock></p>
            <p>For simplicity, that namespace is always associated with <codeph>ethereum</codeph>
                prefix by the XML root element, such
                as:<codeblock>&lt;ts:token xmlns:ts="http://tokenscript.org/2020/06/tokenscript"
          …</codeblock></p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
