<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="why_not_hash">
  <title>Why don't we embed the TokenScript's hash in Smart Contract's</title>
  <shortdesc>Currently, a TokenScript is "trusted" by a smart contract through the TokenScript's
    signing key. Why don't we chuck TokenScript on an IPFS and keep hash of this code is embedded
    into contract?</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>In fact earlier TokenScripts were designed like that. However, as we experimented with
      TokenScript on various types of tokens, we found that the frequency of updating is quite high.
      Since TokenScript has the Cards, which is the interface for Token Contracts, trivial things
      like correcting spelling on user's interface adds transactions to the already crowded Ethereum
      network.</p>
    <p>We also observed that the roles emerge in Token teams. Those who have admin access to a smart
      contract, therefore can update the "hash" included in the contract for TS, are often not the
      same persons responsible for editing and updating TokenScripts. If the trust is expressed by
      file hash, not by keys, the person responsible for updating TokenScript would repeatedly ask
      the person with admin access to send new transactions.</p>
    <p>Furthermore, AlphaWallet created many TokenScripts for existing Tokens, who would express
      trust towards AlphaWallet's TokenScript authors but does not want to be called upon in day to
      day updates.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
