<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mln_ky2_rmb">
    <title>About Tokenization</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><b>The Wallet</b></p>
        <p>In a tokenized World your wallet is your digital base. It contains your token. It is your
            account to everything, your daily guide, your digital fault. You will use your wallet
            daily like you use your mobile phone.</p>
        <p>In a tokenized world, the wallet is the user agent. It is an app on a phone, a plugin for
            the browser, a microchip on a machine. Every human can own as many wallets as he wishes,
            and wallets can be reproduced on any device.</p>
        <p><b>A tokenized creation</b></p>
        <p>At the awakening of literacy, there was not the word, but the token. When Babylonian
            emperors carved runes in tablets of clay they didn't want to <i>say</i> something. They
            represented material goods and dept. This was when Tokenization started.</p>
        <p>A word is a virtual representation of any thing in the physical and imagined world. It
            allows to <i>communicate</i> things. Words are free, nobody owns them. A token however
            represents any thing in the physical and imagined world in a way that it is not free
            but <i>owned</i> by someone. A token <i>is</i> a claim on something.</p>
        <p><b>Hardening a token</b></p>
        <p>In a world before blockchain, humans had a hard time to protect token against double
            spends and counterfeits. They made it hart to reproduce a token. By hammering the claim
            in a stone table, melting it in a crown or in coins, signing the document it is
            recorded, close the letter with a seal, and so on.</p>
        <p>All methods had their shortcoming. Double spend and counterfeit remained epidemic, and
            only central authorities could narrow its scope. While digitization gave the written
            word the ultimate medium in human history, token often have to adhere to outdated medial
            forms. Tokenization did hardly break the limits of the Babylonian model. It didn't
            arrive at the digital age yet.</p>
        <p>With blockchain, token become truly digitized. A new era of Tokenization has begun. Most
            people  don't know what it means yet.</p>
        <p><b>New ownership for everything</b></p>
        <p>Any stake in contract is an ownership. Whenever you or someone else signs something, an
            ownership emerges. A token represents such ownerships. They become digitalized and can
            be used anywhere on the web for anything.</p>
        <p><b>Integration everywhere</b></p>
        <p>Like words, token become powerful when they gather.</p>
        <p>You have a membership token of your fishing club. With it, you can unlock the clubhouse's
            door and get a rebate when you pay with your wallet at the local fishing store. If you
            have a boat driver licence's token too, the membership token can also start the engine
            of the club's boat. All this happens automatically in your wallet. </p>
        <p>You have a subscription token for a magazine. This token allows you to read a few
            articles of other magazines. You can exchange it against other subscription tokens. If
            you have a library membership token, you can co-use the library's subscription token to
            read articles. </p>
        <p>You give an employee a one time signing token. He negotiates a deal with a business
            partner, and when the contract is created as a token, both parties need to provide their
            signing token, maybe more token, like a company token. Only when the signing token are
            available, the smart contract of the business relationship can create new token. The
            smart contract can also define other conditions: It could need a collateral of both
            parties, which is another token, a proof of being solvent, provided by a token, or a
            token proofing that a shipment arrived or a product has a clean supply chain. When the
            contract is signed, let's say a promise on a shipment, payment and delivery are
            automatically made with the same transaction - the </p>
        <p>An unlimited number of token can gather, each providing its proof or claim on something.
            An unlimited number of smart contracts can process and melt the tokens. The payment is
            made - or an advance - and a token as a claim on a shipment is minted. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
