<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_rpz_3jl_mmb">
    <title>ActivityCard</title>
    <shortdesc>Activity Cards show relevant blockchain events, as well as relevant off-chain
        activities. They serve as a library of what is possible and a timeline of what
        happened.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><i>Note: In the current version of AlphaWallet Activity Cards are not supported. But
                AlphaWallet will soon release a version which supports Activity Cards. In this
                version the "transaction" tab will be renamed to "activity" tab.</i></p>
        <p>Activity Cards are meant to show the history of a token. This might seem trivial, since
            any wallets connects to a blockchain, which already serves a shared history of
            transactions.</p>
        <p>But if you ever used dApps with a standard wallet, you know how important Activity Cards
            are. Usually the wallet shows only transactions, in best cases, it also shows the token
            involved. This might be enough for plain value transfers. </p>
        <p>But if you have token interacting with smart contracts - like, renting a car, lending a
            token, exchanging tokens and so on - the information of a plain transaction gets close
            to zero. Your wallet simply doesn't understand what happened. To make it understand what
            has happened, the wallet developers need to understand each smart contract and implement
            its logic in the wallet. This might work for a few popular token - but it can never
            scale to a large and diversified token universe.</p>
        <p>Activity Cards solve this problem. The card is assigned to a token and creates, stores
            and loads <xref href="DataObjects.dita">Data Objects</xref>. This makes wallets suddenly smart: They remember not only
            the transaction, but also the purpose of the transaction - that a user rented a car,
            lended or exchanged a token and so on. And all the wallet has to do is to download the
            TokenScript.</p>
        <p>Furthermore, Activity Cards remember offchain activities: That you created a Magic Link
            to allow someone else to withdraw tokens from your wallet, than your wallet displayed a
            QR code at a gate, that you called an API with an Action Card and so on.</p>
        <p>To sum it up: Activity Cards allow token issuers to create customized history records for
            their token.</p>
        <p><b>Code</b></p>
        <p>We demonstrate the current code for an Activity Card which can be used to document an
            approval for an ERC token. Note that this code might change with the release of
            AlphaWallet implementing Activity Cards.</p>
        <p>Before you create an activity card, you need to create a data object.</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>&lt;asnx:module name="ERC20-Events">
        &lt;namedType name="Approval">
            &lt;type>
                &lt;sequence>
                    &lt;element name="owner" ethereum:type="address" ethereum:indexed="true"/>
                    &lt;element name="spender" ethereum:type="address" ethereum:indexed="true"/>
                    &lt;element name="value" ethereum:type="uint256" ethereum:indexed="false"/>
                &lt;/sequence>
            &lt;/type>
        &lt;/namedType>
&lt;/asnx:module></codeblock>
        </p>
        <p>In this data object TokenScript records that the owner of an ERC token approved someone
            else to spent a certain amount of the token. This information can be used to create an
            Activity Card:</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>&lt;ts:cards>
        &lt;ts:card type="activity" name="ownerApproved">
            &lt;ts:origins>
                &lt;ethereum:event type="Approval" filter="owner=${ownerAddress}"/>
            &lt;/ts:origins>
            &lt;ts:item-view xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
                &lt;style type="text/css">&amp;style;&lt;/style>
                &lt;script  type="text/javascript">&amp;item-view-ownerApproved.en;&lt;/script>
            &lt;/ts:item-view>
            &lt;ts:view xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
                &lt;style type="text/css">&amp;style;&lt;/style>
                &lt;script  type="text/javascript">&amp;gaveApproval.en;&lt;/script>
            &lt;/ts:view>
        &lt;/ts:card>
&lt;/ts:cards></codeblock>
        </p>
        <p>When it is implemented in AlphaWallet, this Activity Card will be visible in the Activity
            tab. By clicking on it, users can view more information about what happened. Like in an
            Action Card this information is produced by a JavaScript file like
            item-view-ownerApproved.en.js:</p>
        <codeblock>class Token {

    constructor(tokenInstance) {
        this.props = tokenInstance;
        this.setConfirm();
    }

    setConfirm() {
        window.onConfirm = function() {
            window.close();
        }
    }

    render() {
        return`
        &lt;div class="ui container">
          &lt;div class="ui segment">
            &lt;img src="data:image/png;base64,i...g==">
            &lt;span>&lt;bold>&lt;h3>Gave approval to move ${this.props.amount} ${this.props.symbol} to ${this.props.to}&lt;/h3>&lt;/bold>&lt;/span>
          &lt;/div>
        &lt;/div>
`;
    }
}

web3.tokens.dataChanged = (oldTokens, updatedTokens, tokenIdCard) => {
    const currentTokenInstance = web3.tokens.data.currentInstance;
    document.getElementById(tokenIdCard).innerHTML = new Token(currentTokenInstance).render();
};</codeblock>
        <p>As in Action Cards, the JavaScript file renders what the user will see: It displays the
            message that he gave approval for address x to move y token. It would also be possible
            to add a link to the transaction on any blockchain explorer and more.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
