<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_adj_mnz_mmb">
    <title>Attestation</title>
    <shortdesc>An attestation is a claim cryptographically attested by an attestor's signature.
        TokenScript enables wallets to create and manage attestations.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <note>Unlike a blockchain token, whose existance only depends on smart contract's state, and
            has no physical files, an attestation can be encoded as a DER file or encoded in a <xref
                href="MagicLink.dita"/>. </note>
        <section>
            <title>What is an attestation?</title>
            <p>Attestation are attested claims on something: On a national identity, on the legal
                drinking / voting age, an university degree, the ownership of an email address, an
                insurance and so on, attested by respective attestor (authority).</p>
            <p>Technically, an attestation is a data object (or file) which attests to something and
                signed by an attestor.</p>
            <p>There are typically three ways to use an attestation:</p>
            <ul id="ul_hdn_xv4_qmb">
                <li>As the payload of an attested transactions. The underlying smart contract will
                    check the validity of such attestations. <xref href="ChequeProtocol.dita"/>
                    makes heavy use of attestations in such a way.</li>
                <li>To prove something to a 3rd party. For example, you can construct a proof of
                    your email address with an email address attestation.</li>
                <li>To provide dependency for other attestations. Since <xref
                        href="AttestationChained.dita"/>.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>TokenScript supports the integration of attestation processes, triggered by an action
                card directly in the wallet. You can integrate an attestation circuit into the life
                cycle of a token.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Attestation use cases</title>
            <p>A standardized attestation format has an enormous potential to smoothly integrate
                identity and other claims into the web and to streamline a wide range of processes,
                like signing up for an exchange, registering a bank account, verifying as an
                accredited investor for an Security Token Offer or renting a car.</p>
            <p>For example, you could create a smart contract for an ICO which requires that
                participants provide an attestation to be an accredited investor. With TokenScript a
                QR code to the smart contract can trigger the attestation process directly in the
                wallet, and the wallet can use the attestation for any ICO in the future.</p>
            <p>Another example would be a car token. When you have the token in your wallet, you can
                have the option to start an insurance process which will create an insurance
                attestation connected to the car token. When the wallet has the attestation,
                TokenScript can unlock the option to take lend the car on a car sharing
                platform.</p>
            <p>There can also be attestations for an activity. For example, a smart contract may
                allow a blockchain payment to be redeemed on the condition that a specific job is
                attested as well done. Such a job can be, for example, a car painting job,
                identified by the job id in the corresponding Smart Contract.</p>
            <p>An attestation can also be connected to an Ethereum entity like the holder of a key
                pair. This allows to create cheques - the transfer of coins from a smart contract to
                someone who can provide an attestation for an identifier like an email address. </p>
            <p>In short: Any delivery vs payment operation can integrate any kind of attestation
                which might be required for the process. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Attestation versus Blockchain Token</title>
            <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-c17d42c9-7fff-776a-6d10-82e4537e3178">Attestation
                and blockchain token are related concepts: Both of them require the user to have a
                private key.</p>
            <p>In some use cases attestations and token are interchangeable: For example, a FIFA
                ticket can be either an attestation or a blockchain token. When it is an
                attestation, it attests the key-holder's right to enter the venue. When it is a
                blockchain token, it serves the same purpose, and also might be transferable within
                the Smart Contract rules.</p>
            <p>That reveals the first difference: an attestation isn't transferable, and a token's
                transferability depends on the smart contract. </p>
            <p>The second difference is that attestations are private: They are not stored on the
                blockchain. Since they often carry private information, they should never hit a
                blockchain. </p>
            <p>The proof of an attestation, however, might be written to the blockchain in an <xref
                    href="AttestedTransaction.dita"/>. This method to process attestations has many
                advantages over the commonly used approach of third party whitelists. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Attestation Format</title>
            <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-5d145ec5-7fff-8581-76f9-a734957f6ca7">An attestation
                is a signed <xref href="DataObjects.dita">dataObject</xref>. The dataObject can
                contain any information, including public and private information. It can be signed
                by an Ethereum entity and attested to a token.</p>
            <p dir="ltr">Attestations are non-transferable, but transferability can be achieved by
                attesting to another attestation.</p>
            <p dir="ltr">Attestations can be fully expressed by an URI for easy and cross-compatible
                usage. This allows to create <xref href="MagicLink.dita">Magic Links</xref> which
                contain an attestation.</p>
            <p dir="ltr">The attestation format takes close inspiration from the X.509 certificate
                specification, RFC-5280, but makes several fields optional, adds a few new ones and
                changes some formats.</p>
            <p dir="ltr">There is still much work to be done. For example, we need a format that can
                do partial attestation by using Merkle Tree, or even zero-knowledge proof of
                attestation.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
