<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wmg_lmf_znb">
    <title>Capacity</title>
    <shortdesc>Capacity is a signed message enabling the use of token</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Usually, when a website wants to access user's tokens, the website needs user's
            permission. The site produces a filter which is applied to the user's election of
            tokens. The browser then present the filtered list to the user, so the user can decide
            which token to be used on the website.</p>
        <p>In order to streamline the user experience, a token issuer can issue a capacity to a
            website. The site that carries the capacity gets to learn the instances of the said
            token owned by the current user, without the user given explicit permission.</p>
        <p>Example of this is that FIFA ticket can given a capacity to booking.com, so that
            booking.com can display special travel packages only valid to the FIFA ticket holders.
            This capacity allos booking.com to learn user's FIFA tickets without the user making
            explicit choice.</p>
        <p>In traditional web2 websites, such integration is done by logging in to booking.com and
            "linking" the user's FIFA ticket account with his/hers booking.com account.</p>
        <p>Capacity is a concept being designed, and there is no data module for it yet.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
