<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dhv_3dl_mmb">
    <title>Cards</title>
    <shortdesc>Cards are a fundamental part of Tokenscript. They define how the token behaves in the
        wallet and are the only part of Tokenscript which is visible for the user.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>In Tokenscript, Cards trigger actions. Whenever something happens, a <i>Card</i> is
            involved. Cards determine how the token behaves in the wallet: How it appears, how the
            wallet processes it and what users can do with it. Cards are like little programs which
            extend the functionality and style of a wallet, tailored for a specific token. </p>
        <p>While other parts of Tokenscript are written mostly in XML, cards are built in JavaScript
            (WebAssembly support will be supported too), but declared in XML.</p>
        <p>An important aspect of cards is that they are not in a website or app. They are in the
            TokenScript files and executed solely in the wallet or a TokenScript enabled dapp
            browser. Like a card in a game, a dApp can play it, but is not able to transform it. In
            the web 3.0 cards can become an important enabler of privacy and security: They offload
            operations and information from websites to wallets. They protect the user and reduce
            the risks of database heists.</p>
        <p>Cards allow dApps to use token to interact with wallets in a much more specific and
            manifold way than a smart contract can do. They are used to display specific icons for a
            token, to query an API to get accompanying information, to create transactions, to
            structure the record of past transactions in a meaningful way and much more. </p>
        <p>A planned feature of TokenScript is to allow the creation and use of decks, which means a
            set of cards that can be combined.</p>
        <p>There are 4 kind of cards: <xref href="TokenCard.dita">Token Cards</xref>, <xref
                href="ActionCard.dita">Action Cards</xref>, <xref href="ActivityCard.dita">Activity
                Cards</xref>, and <xref href="Attestation.dita">Attestation Cards</xref>.</p>
        <p><b>Code</b></p>
        <p>In the Tokenscript XML file cards are declared by
                <codeph>&lt;ts:cards></codeph>...<codeph>&lt;/ts:cards></codeph></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
