<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wg5_gvs_pmb">
    <title>Context-based</title>
    <shortdesc>Token's availability, status and use are affected by context</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>TokenLayer allows Token Actions to be defined and performed based on the context. Depending on
            the situation an available Action changes or a new Action becomes available.</p>
            <p>For an example, take American Express Travel Credit Token. Instead of launching a web
            application called American Express Travel, where the user is able to choose a hotel and
            spend such travel credit, a Token Layer allows the user to go to book a hotel in any
            hotel booking website that supports the use of such a token, and pay with the credit at
            the checkout. Only if the user has enough Credit Token the option to checkout with them
            becomes available.</p>
            <p>Similarly, though a Token can be associated with a specific time, location or
            environment. For example, an airline passenger is able to swipe open the turnstile at
            the airport check-in without having to open his Airline mobile app first, as the use of
            such a token (boarding pass) is associated with the right context. A TokenLayer
            implementation like TokenScript allows the tokens to be associated with context by
            declaration or authorisation, instead of having each token running a process on user's
            device.</p>
        <p>Another context can be the presence of multiple token. Let's say you have a DAI token to
            pay at the checkout, but you also have a subscription token for the local fishermen's
            club. Since the fishermen's club has an agreement with a fishing shop, you can collect
            points when you checkout while having the club membership token in your wallet. You
            might also need a boat insurance token to turn on the engine of the club's fishing boat
            with your club membership token.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
