<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_g4b_kkx_4mb">
    <title>TokenScript examples in AlphaWallet</title>
    <shortdesc>Meet how AlphaWallet already uses TokenScript to improve the user experience for
        several token.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The AlphaWallet team created several TokenScripts for several popular token which improve
            their usability tremendously. To experience it, just import a wallet holding these coins
            in AlphaWallet or send them to a fresh AlphaWallet account.</p>
        <p><b>DAI</b></p>
        <p>If you don't know DAI, you missed something. DAI is a Dollar token on Ethereum, which is
            not centrally managed by a bank account holding a Dollar equivalent, but by a DAO
            holding and trading a reserve in Ether and other token. It's one of the prime examples
            of the power of smart contracts.</p>
        <p>AlphaWallet's TokenScript implementation adds two functionality to the user interface of
            your DAI Dollar:</p>
        <p>
            <ol id="ol_lsk_zkx_4mb">
                <li>You can convert it to xDai and vice versa. This brings a powerful xDai bridge
                    straight into your wallet. With it AlphaWallet supports the offchain scaling
                    Ethereum badly needs.</li>
                <li>Get your best rates to lend DAI. One of the practical differences between Dollar
                    in your bank account and DAI Dollar is that you can use smart contracts to get
                    an interest on your Dollar. AlphaWallet supports this by displaying the best
                    DeFi rates for DAI Dollar.</li>
            </ol>
        </p>
        <p>This features where just mostly created as a demo. They can be broadly extended: You
            could bridge DAI to the OMG blockchain, create the transactions required to lend it,
            allow to borrow more DAI or to pay back a DAI loan and withdraw your collateral and much
            more.</p>
        <p>Basically, any smart contract author can implement his Smart Contract for DAI dollar as
            an Action Card in the <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples/tree/master/examples/erc20/DAI"
                format="html" scope="external">DAI TokenScript</xref>, which is currently maintained
            by the TokenScript team. After reviewing your pull request in the example folder it can
            become part of AlphaWallet.</p>
        <p><b>Compound, AAVE and other DeFi</b></p>
        <p>Usually, a wallet doesn't know a DeFi app until the wallet authors manually integrated
            its logic. For AlphaWallet we did this too - but as an author of a DeFi app you can do
            it yourself and submit it to our TokenScript repository for implementation in
            AlphaWallet.</p>
        <p>Our TokenScript creates customized functionalities for Compound token like cDAI or cWBTC
            as well a aDAI (DAI token in AAVE). If you have those coins in AlphaWallet, you can
            deposit more or redeem them in the wallet. AlphaWallet can also show information about
            the interest rates your token get. </p>
        <p>There are also TokenScripts for other DeFis, for example for UniSwap or DDEX. But they
            are very rudimentary, just catching those token and adding information. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
