<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ilx_nmg_nmb">
    <title>MagicLink</title>
    <shortdesc>MagicLinks does something magic, with cryptography!</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>MagicLinks are action-triggering links that contain cryptographic information.
		Technically, it's an <xref href="specs/EncodingAttestationInURI.dita"/>.</p>
        <p>These encoded attestation links embed information about transactions, token, TokenScript
            and much more. When a wallet imports a MagicLink, it gets a lot of information and
            instructions. </p>
        <p>It can, among others, do the following:</p>
      <section><title>Pass an attestation to a user</title>
        <p>A magic link contains an encoded <xref href="Attestation.dita">attestation</xref>. The
                recipient of such a link can save this attestation in her wallet. It might enable
                him/her to do some specific transactions, depending on the nature of the
                attestation.</p>
        
        </section>
      <section><title>Redeem a token</title>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-cc2d1346-7fff-f5eb-3caf-c17f48dd8176">One case for Magic
            Links is to pay someone without knowing his address. For this you can create a Magic
            Link which contains an allowance to withdraw a certain amount of Ether or a token like
            DAI by anybody who can prove to own a certain email. If the receiver imports the Magic
            Link in his wallet, the wallet knows where to find the TokenScript to attestate the
            email-address and to create the transaction. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">To allow such withdrawl-transactions, the funds or token need to be placed in a
                specific smart contract, or the Smart Contract be written in a way to spawn such a
                token when called to redeem.</p>
            <p>MagicLinks can also allow the withdrawl of Bob's token to Alice's wallet when Alice
                imports the Link in her wallet without requiring an attestation. Such MagicLinks
                are a perfect instrument for faucets, as the faucet provider doesn't need to
                actively sent out coins, but the users can pull them from the smart contract.</p></section>
      <section>
        <title>MagicLinks and TokenScript</title>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-7091f6fc-7fff-3bc9-f10b-ffcba202ea8f">MagicLinks can be
            an important tool to integrate TokenScript in your apps. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">First, if you send a token a with a MagicLink, you tell the receiving wallet
            how to find the TokenScript. It is like if a MagicLink adds an instruction leaflet to
            the delivery of a token or coin.</p>
        <p>Second, you can trigger Action Cards with a MagicLink. This allows a website or an app
            to talk to the wallet and launch token specific operations. This could be an attestation
            - the link starts a token specific attestation procedure, directing to email, id or
            another token. It could also be a complex transaction pattern or some kind of signed
            message and so on. Everything what can be done with an Action Card can be launched with
            a MagicLink. </p>
    </section><section>
            <title>Examples for MagicLinks</title>
            <p>A demo token for an EDCON ticket running on xDai implements an hardcoded MagicLink.
                When you have the token in AlphaWallet and go to the option "transfer", you can
                either transfer it to an address, or you can create and share a MagicLink.</p>
            <p/></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
