<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bq1_gdy_4mb">
    <title>Quick Start</title>
    <shortdesc>In this tutorial we guide you through the process of setting up a very easy
        TokenScript and deploy it to AlphaWallet.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>TokenScript has a lot of functionalities, but we start with an easy example: Add
            information to your token, so that its owners can see in their wallet what they have.
            This is not a small deal, since wallets as we know don't know anything about a token. As
            you will see, this is also the starting point to create offchain apps for your token a
            user can use in his wallet.</p>
        <p><b>Create your testnet token</b></p>
        <p>If you want a really quick start, you don't need to create your own token. Just add the
            token on Ropsten address 0xe35FE4A1B17d50A8022078d98162DB25bC860834 to AlphaWallet. You
            don't need to have token, but have to enable AlphaWallet to show zero balance token. If
            you need help doing so, read this mini guide.</p>
        <p>To create your own token we recommend that you use Ethereum studio to create the files
            for a standard ERC token. Studio has a good template for a simple token, which is enough
            for this purpose. Than you need to recreate the files in Remix. To deploy them on
            Ropsten, you need to connect your wallet, like AlphaWallet or Metamask, and get some
            testnet coins from the faucet. If you know the tools, this should be easy, if you don't
            know, it is an interesting experience. Our mini guide explains in detail how to do.</p>
        <p>After you deployed your token on Ropsten, copy the contract address and add the token to
            AlphaWallet. </p>
        <p>At this step you have a new token in AlphaWallet. But AlphaWallet remains dumb. It can
            only send and receive the token. It doesn't know anything about it. This is what we will
            change now.</p>
        <p><b>Create the TokenScript files</b></p>
        <p>You could create the TokenScript file from scratch. To do so, you should understand the
            basic concepts and study the code of the examples. But for this exercise you don't need
            to. Fortunately you can use ABI to TokenScript, a simple tool to get the TokenScript
            files from the smart contract ABI. You can find it either in Studio or get it from
            Etherscan.io.</p>
        <p>Now download the files in a folder on your computer and inspect them. Most important is
            the token.xml file. It declares the TokenScript structure. Also important are the
            JavaScript files. They contain the dynamic code for Action Cards which is executed in
            AlphaWallet. You will need the Makefile to finish the TokenScript creation.</p>
        <p><b>The XML file</b></p>
        <p>In this guide we will only present the parts of the XML file you will need for this task.
            To learn more about the syntax, you find an overview here.</p>
        <p><i>The header</i></p>
        <p>The file header will look like this:</p>
        <p><codeph>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph>&lt;!DOCTYPE token [</codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;!ENTITY style SYSTEM "shared.css"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;!ENTITY about.en SYSTEM "about.en.js"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;!ENTITY approve.en SYSTEM "approve.en.js"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;!ENTITY foryou.en SYSTEM "foryou.en.js"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> ]></codeph></p>
        <p>The first line declares the version of the document. Inside the !DOCTYPE tag you declare
            other files to use. In this case it are the JavaScript files to use in Action Cards. </p>
        <p><i>Declare contract, network and name</i></p>
        <p>Every TokenScript file needs to contain some basic info about the token: On which network
            does it run, what is the address of its smart contract, and what is its name? This is
            declared with this code:</p>
        <p><codeph>&lt;ts:contract interface="erc20" name="Coin"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:address
                network="3">0xe35FE4A1B17d50A8022078d98162DB25bC860834&lt;/ts:address></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/ts:contract></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:origins></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:ethereum contract="Coin"/></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/ts:origins></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:cards></codeph></p>
        <p><i>Action Cards</i></p>
        <p>Now we will talk about Action Cards. This is where the fun begins and where we can add
            individual information to our token.</p>
        <p>In the xml file, the part with Cards starts with the <codeph>&lt;ts:cards></codeph> tag
            and ends with <codeph>&lt;/ts:cards></codeph>. Inside of these tags we put the
            individual cards. With the following card we simply add information:</p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:card type="action"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:label></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">About this token&lt;/ts:string></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/ts:label></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;ts:view</codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;style type="text/css">&amp;style;&lt;/style></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;script type="text/javascript">&amp;about.en;&lt;/script></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/ts:view></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/ts:card></codeph></p>
        <p>The starting tag explains TokenScript that this is an Action Card. AlphaWallet will know
            where to place it. Inside the label tags we find the english version of what will be on
            the button to show information: About this token. The information itself is put in
            between the view tags. Here we place a reference to a CSS and a JavaScript file.</p>
        <p><b>The JavaScript file</b></p>
        <p>You should have two JavaScript files in your folder: about.en.js and approve.en.js. We
            ignore the approve file and open the about.en.js file to inspect it:</p>
        <p>The file starts with the declaration of the Token class, and ends with a web3 command. In
            this guide we only focus on one part inside the Token class - the render() function:</p>
        <p><codeph> render() {</codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> return`</codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;div class="ui container"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;div class="ui segment"></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;img src="https://www.bitcoin-buch.org/bitcoin-geschichte-front-1.jpg"
                /></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;span>&lt;bold>&lt;h1>This is the Token of Christoph!&lt;/h1>&lt;/bold>&lt;br
                />&lt;br />It is a one of the century chance to invest!&lt;/span></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/div></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> &lt;/div></codeph></p>
        <p><codeph>`;</codeph></p>
        <p><codeph> }</codeph></p>
        <p>This function renders the display after the user tapped the "about the token" button.
            Inside you find some basic HTML: A div of the class "ui container", and in it a div of
            the class "ui segment". Inside this div there is a picture, a headline and a text. </p>
        <p><b>Add your personal note to your token</b></p>
        <p>Know that you know some basics about the TokenScript architecture it is easy for you to
            add your own Action Card with your personal information: Create a file called
            hello.en.js. Copy the content of about.en.js in this file, change the part inside the
            rendered div as you want, save it. Then open the xml file, declare your JavaScript file
            in the header, copy the Action Card for "about", and modify the content that it loads
            the hello.en.js file.</p>
        <p><b>Canonicalize your TokenScript</b></p>
        <p>We are almost here. The next step is that you have to create a canonicalized XML file
            containing all files in the folder. If you have AlphaWallet on iOS, you can skip this
            step.</p>
        <p>Thanks to the Makefile file the canonicalization is easy: Type "make
            token.canonicalized.xml", with "token" as the name of your token. If your system has all
            dependencies, you will get a file named "token.canonicalized.xml.TEST". Rename the file
            into token.canonicalized.xml.</p>
        <p>If the make commaned doesn't work, you might lack some software. You can use xmllint,
            which is available for both Ubuntu and Windows. <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples/tree/master/tutorial#xmllint"
                format="html" scope="external">Here you find the commands how to install
            it</xref>.</p>
        <p><b>Put the TokenScript on your Smartphone</b></p>
        <p>Finally you need to connect your smartphone to your computer. Open the filesystem and
            navigate to the AlphaWallet folder. On iOS you can just throw all the files in this
            folder, on Android you just need to paste the token.canonicalized.xml.</p>
        <p>Now open AlphaWallet and select your token. Click the […] button in the right buttom,
            select "hello" and look at the information you added. This is your first
            TokenScript.</p>
        <p>Whenever you want to change the information or add another Action Card, you can simply
            repeate the former steps.</p>
        <p><b>A glance beyond</b></p>
        <p>Adding a bit of information to a token in a wallet might sound trivial. But it's no small
            deal. Common wallets don't know anything about a token, and if they do, then it is
            because the wallet developers selected a coin to add information. With AlphaWallet and
            TokenScript you can add information to any Token.</p>
        <p>It doesn't require much fantasy to imagine how this simple Action Card can become the
            base for apps. With JavaScript you are not restricted to show information. You can do
            everything JavaScript can do, and you can connect to an API to get information. If you
            know how to sign a message with a key inside TokenScript, you can even design your API
            so that it only sends information to a wallet holding a required amount of your tokens.
            You can bind any subscription based app to a token and launch it in AlphaWallet. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
