<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mq2_zlg_nmb">
    <title>Signing a TokenScript</title>
    <shortdesc>TokenScript files are signed by the token issuer, usually.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-1d4e618f-7fff-5cbf-a973-b4ead0df755d">The TokenScript
            files are signed for two distinct reasons.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">First, to associate the TokenScript to the <i>identity</i> of the issuer.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Second, to link to the <i>smart contracts</i> it interacts with.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Associate the signature with an identity</dt>
                    <dd>Associate the signature with an identity, such as a domain name - e.g.
                        "aave.com" - by attaching a certificate to the signature. Domain cerifiicate
                        is the most convenient type to obtain, but any identity that can be
                        ceritified through a trusted X.509 certificate authority should do.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><xref href="Express-Of-Trust.dita">Link TokenScript with smart contracts</xref></dt>
                    <dd>Used for transaction security. If a smart contract trusts TokenScript, the
                        transaction generated from that TokenScript is displayed with a trust badge.
                        This is similar to how a website might be displayed with a trust badge if it
                        properly uses https.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </p>
        <p>The former is done <i>during</i> signing of the TokenScript; the second is done
                <i>separately</i>, outside of TokenScript signing.</p>
        <p>TokenScript can't be deployed for production use if it is unsigned. But you can debug an
            unsigned TokenScript (they will be displayed as untrusted by <xref href="Engine.dita"
            />).</p>
        
        <section audience="implementer">
            <title>Sometimes, parts of TokenScript have to be signed twice</title>
            <p>We recommend a TokenScript signature always be associated with an identity through an
                certificate.</p>
            <p>However, the Smart Contract might be from a different team than the TokenScript
                author, where wholesale trust to the identity is not possible.</p>
            <p>For example, AAVE team might create a token action for DAI token that is called
                "Enable Deposit to AAVE". This effectively authorises Uniswap's smart contract to
                act on-behalf of AAVE token holder. Since such an action transacts to the DAI token
                contract, that token contract need to express trust to that action's code.</p>
            <p>AAVE team reaches out to the DAI team, and ask DAI token contract to express trust by
                identity, in this case, "aave.com". DAI token contract team reasonably rejected the
                proposal, since they don't know what TokenScript AAVE team will sign - in the worst
                case, it could be a "Try me" action which simply steals user's AAVE tokens from the
                contract.</p>
            <p>In this case, DAI contract will only express trust towards a key associated with the
                identity "makerdao.com". And AAVE team has to send their TokenScript - at least the
                relevant action part - to the DAI team to be signed by that key.</p>
            <p>This would result in a TokenScript that is signed 2 times. </p>
            <p>A <xref href="Engine.dita"/> would identify the two signatures as such: one that
                expresses authorship, the other was trusted by the smart contract through associated
                identity.</p>
            <p>In such a scenario, the identity of the authorship is always displayed to the user,
                while if the user is to perform the action, the express of trust is evaluated and
                the result is displayed together with the identity involved (in this case,
                "makerdao.com").</p>
        </section>
        <section audience="implementer">
            <title>It's possible to express trust to a key, instead of an identifier</title>
            <p>Can a smart contract expresses trust to a signing key instead of an identifier such
                as domain name?</p>
            <p>Such a need is discussed in the TokenScript weekly committee meeting however we don't
                know how practically they are needed, so this section is only available for
                implementers as reference material. In that case, each key has a name.</p>
            <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Reputation Key</dt>
                        <dd>let's user accept the TokenScript based on the reputation of the website
                        or organisation. In the simplest case, a website SSL certificate with the
                        corresponding key will do. A <xref
                            href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Validation_Certificate"
                            format="html" scope="external">EV certificate</xref> would be
                        better.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Trust Key</dt>
                        <dd>is either returned as part of the metadata of a Smart
            Contract, or, if the Smart Contract doesn't support returning such meta-data, through an
            express-of-trust transaction from the Smart Contract's deployment key</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                </dl>
        </section>
        <section><title>Does the signer need to be the smart contract author?</title>
        <p dir="ltr">It's not required, even though it's often the case.</p>
            <p>TokenScript can be maintained by a member of your team who isn't the smart contract
                developer or administrator. In this case, the smart contract needs to express trust
                to the key or the identifier of the key.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">But it can also be done by another party, which gained trust from the token
                issuer. In this case, it's better if the TokenScript, or the relative portion, be
                signed twice. Once by the author of the TokenScript - aw.app, AlphaWallet, made some
                TokenScript on behalf of the Token Issuer - and once by the Token Issuer
                themselves.</p>
        </section>
        <section audience="implementer"><title>Signing referred resources</title>
            <p dir="ltr">Any data reference - icons, images and language packs - used by the
                TokenScript must be referred to in the <codeph>&lt;SignedInfo></codeph> section of
                the XML signature using the <codeph>&lt;Reference></codeph> element. If they don’t,
                they will not be available for the user agent. Each reference is downloaded and its
                digest verified as part of the TokenScript signature verification process. If any of
                the references fails to download or the digest doesn't match, the entire XML
                signature is considered invalid.</p></section>
    </conbody>

</concept>
