<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pwj_hsr_4mb">
    <title>TokenScript Step by Step</title>
    <shortdesc>In this guide we will explain step by step how you can create and use your own
        TokenScript.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>We assume you have created a token on Ethereum or on an Ethereum Testnet. For testing
            purposes you can also use any existing token smart contract.</p>
        <p><b>Create TokenScript files: Overview</b></p>
        <p>(1) Use ABI to TokenScript: <xref
                href="https://alphawallet.github.io/ABI-to-TokenScript/" format="html"
                scope="external">https://alphawallet.github.io/ABI-to-TokenScript/</xref></p>
        <p>(2) Create the files by yourself: XML as the skeletton, JavaScript-files for Action
            Cards, CSS for style, Makefile as instruction how to make. Helpful: Ethereum Studio.</p>
        <p><b>A very simple example</b></p>
        <p>(1) We assume a very simple ERC token, and we assume you only want the wallet to receive
            a bit of information</p>
        <p>(2) ABI to TokenScript. Understand the code: (a) xml (b) JavaScript</p>
        <p>(3) Small edits: (a) Add Action Card (b) Write message, load picture</p>
        <p>(4) Deploy: (a) Makefile (b) rename file (c ) copy on phone</p>
        <p>(5) Enjoy: See the Action Card</p>
        <p>(6) Outlook: Can do everything. For example, if you have something like cWBTC in
            AlphaWallet, you can deposit and withdraw cWTBC directly from the wallet. It is far from
            covering all compound functions, but a lot more than other wallets can do.</p>
        <p><b>Make it publicly available</b></p>
        <p>(1) Sign it</p>
        <p>(2) Upload on TokenScript Repo</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
