<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_nlj_qhg_nmb">
    <title>TokenScript Overview</title>
    <conbody>
	    <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-e0588b59-7fff-f9c6-08d4-576a2c544c53">TokenScript is a
            Tokenisation framework. It wraps HTML, JavaScript and XML to express Token
            functionalities and make them deployable in the wallet and on websites. With
            TokenScript, any token can unlock its customized mini dapp. </p>
        <p>TokenScript creates a <xref href="TokenLayer.dita"/>: A <xref href="DataDriven.dita"/>,
            and <xref href="ContextBased.dita"/> layer between the blockchain and the user. On this
            layer, token are the basic unit to structure the interaction between users and
            blockchains.</p>
	    <p dir="ltr">TokenScript consists of two parts:</p>
        <ul id="ul_omt_14t_ymb">
            <li dir="ltr">TokenScript Engine, which works in the user's wallet, on the web or in a
                browser plugin. The TokenScript Engine provides the runtime environment for tokens
                to be used on 3rd party websites.</li>
            <li dir="ltr">The<xref href="TokenScript-Component.dita"/> wraps XML, HTML and
                JavaScript and is issued and signed by the corresponding Token Issuer. It can be
                imported by any service or device which implemented TokenScript Engine. The file
                provides additional token information, structures the token UX in the wallets, and
                appends rules, data modules, transaction security measurements and much more. </li>
        </ul>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript files are <xref href="Signing.dita">signed by the creator of the
                token smart contract or a trusted source</xref> with a public key. Wallets and dApps
            can import and verify the files and make sure users only get authorized TokenScripts
            from trusted sources.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript is blockchain agnostic. The main focus of our development is based
            on Ethereum token. But it can be adopted to other blockchains and even combine token and
            interactions of different blockchains. TokenScript is not a standard for token, but
                <xref href="ts-vs-token-standards.dita">a standard for a Token Layer</xref>, which
            enables wallets and apps and websites to work with any non-standardized token as easy as
            with ERC token.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">This guide will educate you about the<xref href="BasicConcepts.dita"> basic
                concepts of TokenScript</xref> and the <xref href="Deploy.dita">deployment</xref> of
            a TokenScript. </p>
        <section>
            <title>TokenScript benefits </title>
            <table id="table_uys_s4t_ymb">
                <tgroup cols="3">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="newCol4" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry><b>Wallets</b></entry>
                            <entry><b>without TokenScript</b></entry>
                            <entry><b>with TokenScript</b></entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Understand token specific smart contracts</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>can create token specific transactions</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>know the token specific history with all details</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>executes offchain operations of a token</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>unlock token specific mini dapps</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>implements token specific rules</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>can import magic links</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>can trigger attestation processes and attestated
                                transactions</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>display validated information about a token</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>render token appearance depending on the context</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>combine several token for customized operations</entry>
                            <entry>no</entry>
                            <entry>yes</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p><b>For Token Issuers</b></p>
            <p dir="ltr">TokenScript enables token issuers to leave the restrictions of smart
                contracts behind. It allows to add a lot of information, even image files or API
                lookups to a token, and design a set of business rules and interaction logics for
                it, including <xref href="concept/Attestation.md" format="mdita">attestations</xref> and structured
                interactions with other tokens. </p>
            <p dir="ltr">Moreover, with TokenScript token issuers can easily and securely update the
                token rules.</p>
            <p><b>For Wallets</b></p>
        </section><section>
            <p dir="ltr">For<b> wallets, </b>TokenScript levels up their capability as the user
                agent for blockchain interactions. Currently most dApps require a third party
                website to interpret the state of the blockchain and to craft smart contract
                transactions. When a wallet imports TokenScript, it learns to fully understand the
                smart contract and craft the required transactions.</p>
            <p>Furthermore, TokenScript allows Token issuers to design the token GUI in the wallet,
                create all kind of complex transactions and append offchain functions. <b>With
                    TokenScript, any token can unlock custom mini apps in the wallet</b>.</p>
            <p><b>For Web and app developer</b></p>
        </section><section>
        <p dir="ltr">Web and app developers can deploy TokenScript into their app. It allows them to
            securely integrate the full scope of token functionality and to trigger specific token
            related actions in the user wallet. Without TokenScript they would need to deeply
            understand blockchain and smart contracts and invest a lot of work to integrate every
            single token. With TokenScript only a very basic knowledge is required.</p>
         </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
