<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_jrl_h5q_4mb">
    <title>Token Negotiation</title>
    <shortdesc>Token Negotiation is how a website discovers tokens it can use</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Token Negotiation is the process by which Tokens and Websites negotiate to find the
            match.</p>
        <p>For example, a travel booking website like booking.com might negotiate for the following
            tokens:</p>
        <ul id="ul_yqp_k5t_pmb">
            <li>Travel agent's status token which allows special travel-agent booking.</li>
            <li>Any airfare token which included free overnight stay for certain hotels.</li>
            <li>Priority Guest Rewards tokens, which might allows free upgrades for certain
                hotels.</li>
            <li>Any Payment Token that can be used to pay for the booking (e.g. American Express
                Explorer Credit). </li>
            <li>COVID-19 attestation, which attestates a recent negative test result or
                antibodies</li>
        </ul>
        <p>If the browser supports TokenScript, it will handle the negotiation and provide the
            website with user's tokens to be used on this website. Otherwise, the website can ship
            bootstrap library to do the negotiation.</p>
        <section id="negotiation_methods"><title>Negotiation Methods</title>
            <p>TokenScript provides the following negotiation methods:</p><ol id="ol_egq_bvt_pmb">
                <li><xref href="Filter.dita"/> based negotiation, which uses a filter to find a
                    token.</li>
                <li><xref href="Capability.dita"/> based negotiation, by which a
                    website provides an attestation signed by a token issuer's trust key, showing
                    that the token is intended to be usable on that website;</li>
                <li>Expectation based negotiation, by which a token declares being able to do
                    certain things (e.g. let the website receives 1ETH in payment).</li>
            </ol><p>These can be combined and mixed.</p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Negotiation Scope</title>
            <p>The tokens that comes out of a negotiation on a web page is affected by 2
                factors.</p>
            <ol id="ol_pnj_nr4_mnb">
                <li>The TokenScript provided by the web page. This can be done by adding the
                    TokenScripts of possible outcomes in the HTML header section.</li>
                <li>The TokenScript provided by the user agent (wallet). This is affected by how
                    many Tokenscripts are cached on user's wallet.</li>
                <li>The "token.scope" meta tag (unimplemented).</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        
        <section id="section_dcx_4jc_ymb">
            <title>Negotation Process</title>
            <p>Negotation can be passive or active.</p>
            <p>In a passive negotiation, the website declares the negotiation method and scope in
                HTML <codeph>&lt;meta></codeph> element, as seen in <xref
                    href="TokenNegotiationExamples.dita"/>. In a browser, the user is preseneted
                with a <xref href="TokenBar.dita"/>. The user can click the tokens in the token bar
                any time to make that token "active" in the current session. It's possible for the
                user to not to choose anything in the entire session and the user is not forced to
                make a choice.</p>
            <p>In an active negotiation, the website runs a JavaScript routine to do the
                negotiation. The user is presented with the choice of tokens and the user must make
                a choice or explicitly choose nothing. Such JavaScript routine can be hooked to a
                button, for example, "Sign-up for a newsletter" button might trigger the user to
                choose one of the tokens that can produce an email address proof.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
