<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yph_nkg_nmb">
    <title>TokenScript File</title>
  <shortdesc>TokenScript file
            is an overlay of XML Mark-up and JavaScript.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-97ed4cbc-7fff-a39d-5b96-20bec9a103c1">A TokenScript file
            consists of Token Cards, presently in JavaScript and HTML, overlayed with XML
            mark-up.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">The XML mark-up tells a <xref href="Engine.dita"/> to work out how to identify,
            index and search a token, provide data for its actions and connect it to the web. The
            JavaScript is used in TokenCards to render token UX and carry out token actions.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">The TokenScript is not part of the smart contract which created the token. But
            it must contain a reference to it and can interact with it.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">The TokenScript files are written and <xref href="Signing.dita">signed by the
                issuer of a token or a trusted party</xref>. They can be updated with another
            signature. Users can download the TokenScript files on any website or the TokenScript
            repository and validate the signature. This makes it impossible to fake a TokenScript. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">Wallets which understand TokenScript can import it and render the user
            experience according to the TokenScript instructions.</p>
        <section><title>The XML markup</title>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-f87167c3-7fff-e895-9671-be989e591192">The XML markup is
            usually expressed in a file and uses standard XML syntax. It is mostly a declarative
            language, with declarations sometimes being nested.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">The XML markup describes properties of the token: The functions it provides,
            the smart contract it relies upon, the behavior of the token, information of the token
            and much more. </p>
        <p dir="ltr">There is a <xref href="elements/index.dita">list of XML declarations</xref>
            developed by TokenScript. For most cases you only need a few of them.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">TokenScript uses XML according the the c14n canonicalization. This allows to
            create standardized digital signatures for XML and to enforce standardized static types
            like ASN.1 data modules.</p>
        <p>The best way to understand how the XML files are structured, study <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples" format="html"
                scope="external">our TokenScript example</xref> repo.</p>
        <p>Here is a fragmented example for a TokenScript XML
            file:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE token  [
        &lt;!ENTITY style SYSTEM "shared.css">
        &lt;!ENTITY about.en SYSTEM "about.en.js">
        ]>

&lt;ts:token
    xmlns:ts="http://tokenscript.org/2020/06/tokenscript"
    xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns:asnx="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:asnx"
    xmlns:ethereum="urn:ethereum:constantinople" xsi:schemaLocation="http://tokenscript.org/2020/06/tokenscript http://tokenscript.org/2020/06/tokenscript.xsd" custodian="false">
    &lt;asnx:module name="Coin-event-Sent">
        &lt;namedType name="Sent">
            &lt;sequence>
                &lt;element name="from" ethereum:type="address" ethereum:indexed="false">&lt;/element>
                &lt;element name="to" ethereum:type="address" ethereum:indexed="false">&lt;/element>
                &lt;element name="amount" ethereum:type="uint256" ethereum:indexed="false">&lt;/element>
            &lt;/sequence>
        &lt;/namedType>
    &lt;/asnx:module>
    &lt;ts:label>
        &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">Coin&lt;/ts:string>
    &lt;/ts:label>
    &lt;ts:contract interface="erc20" name="Coin">
        &lt;ts:address network="3">0xe35FE4A1B17d50A8022078d98162DB25bC860834&lt;/ts:address>
    &lt;/ts:contract>
    &lt;ts:origins>
        &lt;ts:ethereum contract="Coin"/>
    &lt;/ts:origins>
    &lt;ts:cards>
        &lt;ts:card type="action">
            &lt;ts:label>
                &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">Approve&lt;/ts:string>
            &lt;/ts:label>
            &lt;ts:attribute name="approvalAddress">
                &lt;ts:type>
                    &lt;ts:syntax>1.3.6.1.4.1.1466.115.121.1.36&lt;/ts:syntax>
                &lt;/ts:type>
                &lt;ts:label>
                    &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">Approval Address&lt;/ts:string>
                &lt;/ts:label>
                &lt;ts:origins>
                    &lt;ts:user-entry as="address"/>
                &lt;/ts:origins>
            &lt;/ts:attribute>
            &lt;ts:transaction>
                &lt;ethereum:transaction function="approve" contract="Coin" as="uint">
                    &lt;ts:data>
                        &lt;ts:address ref="approvalAddress"/>                            &lt;ts:uint256>115792089237316195423570985008687907853269984665640564039457584007913129639935&lt;/ts:uint256>
                    &lt;/ts:data>
                &lt;/ethereum:transaction>
            &lt;/ts:transaction>
            &lt;ts:view
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
                &lt;style type="text/css">&amp;style;&lt;/style>
                &lt;script type="text/javascript">&amp;approve.en;&lt;/script>
            &lt;/ts:view>
        &lt;/ts:card>
    &lt;/ts:cards>
    &lt;ts:attribute name="name">
        &lt;ts:type>
            &lt;ts:syntax>1.3.6.1.4.1.1466.115.121.1.26&lt;/ts:syntax>
        &lt;/ts:type>
        &lt;ts:label>
            &lt;ts:string xml:lang="en">name&lt;/ts:string>
        &lt;/ts:label>
        &lt;ts:origins>
            &lt;ethereum:call function="name" contract="Coin" as="utf8">&lt;/ethereum:call>
        &lt;/ts:origins>
    &lt;/ts:attribute>
&lt;/ts:token>
</codeblock></p>
      </section><section><title>JavaScript / WebAssembly</title>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-164e561b-7fff-349a-545c-506c6cb992db">The JavaScript
            part integrates TokenScript in the wallet or dApps. It renders the display of the token
            and can execute custom offchain functionalities. Broadly, it is the dynamic part of the
            TokenScript, while XML is the static one.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">Everything what happens in the wallet and everything a user can see is
            described with JavaScript: The rendering of the environment, the display of text and
            images and so on. In terms of TokenScript, JavaScript is used when a card is
            triggered.</p>
        <p dir="ltr">The creators of TokenScript use JavaScript. But any WeAssembly compatible
            language like Ruby or C can be used. The wallet importing TokenScript needs to
            understand these languages.</p>
        <p>Again, the best way to learn about how to build the JavaScript files is to inspect them in
            the <xref
                href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Examples/blob/master/examples/erc20/WETH/WETH.xml"
                format="html" scope="external">TokenScript example repo</xref>. Here we present a
            very simple JavaScript to show an "about" site.</p>
        <p>
            <codeblock>//&lt;![CDATA[
class Token {

    constructor(tokenInstance) {
        this.props = tokenInstance;
        this.setConfirm();
    }

    setConfirm() {
        window.onConfirm = function() {
            window.close();
        }
    }

    render() {
        let message = "Sample about page for your token, fill me up!";
        return`
        &lt;div class="ui container">
          &lt;div class="ui segment">
            &lt;img src="https://www.bitcoin-buch.org/bitcoin-geschichte-front-1.jpg" />
            &lt;span>&lt;bold>&lt;h1>This is the Token of Christoph!&lt;/h1>&lt;/bold>&lt;br />&lt;br />It is a one of the century chance to invest!&lt;/span>
          &lt;/div>
        &lt;/div>
`;
    }
}

web3.tokens.dataChanged = (oldTokens, updatedTokens, tokenIdCard) => {
    const currentTokenInstance = web3.tokens.data.currentInstance;
    document.getElementById(tokenIdCard).innerHTML = new Token(currentTokenInstance).render();
};
//]]&gt;</codeblock>
        </p>
      </section><section><title>Merging and signing the files</title>
        <p>To deploy TokenScript, the files needs to be merged in a canonicalized XML file. For
                testing purposes you can load the canonicalized XML file in the AlphaWallet folder
                on your smart phone. For production you must sign the file and make it available to
                your users, either by a website or by the <xref
                    href="https://github.com/AlphaWallet/TokenScript-Repo" format="html"
                    scope="external">TokenScript repo</xref>.</p></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
