<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_hkf_tdd_pmb">
    <title>The
        <?oxy_comment_start author="theBergmann" timestamp="20200807T182405+0200" comment="is TokenLayer a product / a brand? If not, better write it as &quot;the Token Layer&quot;" flag="done"?>Token
        Layer<?oxy_comment_end?></title>
    <shortdesc>The Token Layer connects the applications (websites) and blockchain</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The Token Layer is what we call the general infrustructure and standardisation needed to
            achieve <xref href="concept/TIPS.md" format="mdita"/>, the core requirements of tokenisation.</p>
        <section><title>The Token Layer is for Web3</title>
            <p>A TokenLayer sits between a Blockchain and a Web3 websites. It provides token with
                functionalities which have the level of trust of a blockchain but the user
                experience of a website. It mediates the inconvenience of blockchain technologies
                and allows developers to easily integrate the full scope of token based
                applications.</p></section>
        <section/>

        <section>
            <title>A TokenLayer is both an infrastructure and standardisation</title>
            <p>Speaking of standardisation, take, for example, the process of matching Tokens with
                Websites that use them: TokenNegotiation, requires a common conversation channel for
                the website to check what tokens the user has, and for the user to choose the token
                to use, prove the token's ownership or other information if needed. Furthermore, the
                way token invoke each other requires a common expression which benefits from
                standardisation.</p>
            <p>On the infrastructure side, a TokenLayer implementation like TokenScript accesses
                blockchain data on behalf of the token code (in TokenScript files) and the website
                run the necessary cryptographic proofs plus mathematical gymnastics, provides a
                private and secure environment to run Token Cards, and provide security features to
                safe guard user's assets.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
    <concept id="tokenlayer_for_web_builder">

        <title>Token Layer for the web builders</title>
        <conbody>
            <p>For a website, a TokenLayer is like a rail that you can "slot-in" blockchain Tokens,
                similar to how a Payment Rail allows an e-commerce site to on-board users of various
                credit card and payment methods. However, Tokens can provide more important roles
                than just payment: They represent any stake in any contractualized relationship. </p>
            <p>For example: One token can represent a car, another token an insurance, and when
                taken together, the car can be lend on a website. The borrower gets a third token,
                which allows him to start the engine for a certain timeframe. Token can become the
                building blocks of the next web. More about innovative ways to use tokens on
                websites see</p>
        </conbody>
    </concept>
    <concept id="tokenlayer_for_token_issuer">
        <title>Token Layer for the token Issuers</title>
        <conbody>
            <p>For a Token Issuer, a TokenLayer can be considered as a pre-packaged distribution
                channel to make your tokens available to all websites that also uses a TokenLayer.
                This is vital to token issuer's business model which is directly affected by the
                token's reach. A TokenLayer solution supports various transaction security features
                and a packaged user experience. For example, if you issue Car Token to car owners,
                they will be able to use it on websites to rent their cars out, or access car status
                and services with that token. </p>
        </conbody>
    </concept>
</concept>
