<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_uhp_4dv_nmb">
    <title>Is TokenScript a standardisation effort?</title>
    <shortdesc>Is TokenScript a standardisation effort?</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>TokenScript provides a token layer, which consists of data layer and cards.</p>
        <p>The creation of a Token Layer inevitably requires some standardisation, but that is not
            like ERC20, where the token interface is standardised.</p>
        <p>In fact, contrary to ERC20, TokenScript allows <i>any</i> contract interface and
                <i>any</i> event to be defined, following ERCs or not. You can create a token that
            is not conforming to ERC20, ERC721 or any known ERCs and write a TokenScript for it, it
            will work just like the ERC20 tokens, since the TokenScript briefs your wallet or app
            how to interpret the token. In that sense, TokenScript is a <i>counter token
                standard</i> as it allow wallets and websites to work with a token without it
            following a specific token interface ERC. An example of Token that doesn't follow a
            known ERC is the Line of Credit token in AAVE.</p>
        <p>TokenScript however does provide a standard way to build TokenLayer, following the
            structure laid out by TokenScript. Much of these structures can be built after the
            smart contract is written, so it generally doesn't affect how a token contract is
            written, unless the token wish to support higher level security through DvP
            Security.</p>
        <p>For an analogy, token interfaces are like paths. Most websites do have
                <codeph>/contact</codeph> and <codeph>/about</codeph> paths, but TokenScript is like
            HTML which does not require specific path, as long as it is defined and accessible.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
