<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qz1_23g_nmb">
    <title>What Can TokenScript Do?</title>
    <conbody>
        <p dir="ltr" id="docs-internal-guid-e32088fa-7fff-9cd2-5782-f31ffa582fc2">TokenScript can do
            so much that it would be easier to explain what it can’t do. Here are some examples for
            what TokenScript can add to a token:</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Information</b>: When a token implements TokenScript, a wallet or webapp can
            instantly learn about its name and abbreviation, get a description in several languages
            and an image file as a logo. The wallet can even querry an API, e. G. to get weather or
            exchange data. This information can adapt to the context.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>History</b>: The wallet can remember the detailed history of operations a
            token was involved, both onchain and offchain. Natively a wallet only knows
            transactions. With TokenScript it can tell the complete history of its token.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Create customized transactions</b>: Smart contracts often require users to
            craft very customized transactions. Mostly this is done by a third party website and
            signed by your wallet. TokenScript instructs the wallet or webapp how to craft these
            transactions and can display a button to trigger them. Especially for websites this is
            no small deal: Instead of studying each smart contract and crafting the transactions by
            themselves, the web developers just need to import a TokenScript.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Integration with other token</b>: Some operations of your token might
            require that the user holds another token. For example, a car sharing token might need
            you to own a car token and an insurance token. TokenScript defines and structures these
            integrations.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Attestations</b>: You might have a use case for your token which requires
            attestations, be it per e-mail or from a government agency. TokenScript can trigger an
            attestation process directly in the wallet of the user and allow other parties to verify
            it. The wallet can store and use any kind of attestation file in privately.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Restrict operations</b>: TokenScript can restrict the scope of operations.
            For examples, if you have a token for a world cup game, you can sell it - but only as
            long as the game has not ended. TokenScript can define any kind of rule for token
            transfers and usecases.</p>
        <p dir="ltr"><b>Proofs</b>: TokenScript allows to add private or public proofs to Token
            operations. For example, an operation could only be valid if someone proofs to own 1000
            Ether. With Zero-Knowledge-Proofs this can be done without revealing an address.</p>
        <p>That are just some of the most important feature TokenScript can unlock. It enables
            everything you can think of if you have a framework to enrich a token with information
            and instructions a wallet can automatically get when the user receives a token. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
